# Extracted from: Aspects Speed of Light (1).pdf

ASPECTS @ THE SPEED OF LIGHT
By
Kapiel Raaj 
© Copyright 2013 
www.AstrologyKRS.com
Book Editor:  Shalini Choudhary
Website: www.shalctv.com 
YouTube: SHALcTV
© copyright 2013 by Kapiel Raaj 
All rights reserved. This book may not be reproduced in whole or 
in part, or transmitted in any form, without written permission 
from the author. You are not allowed to reproduce any part of the 
book, stored in retrieval system, or mechanical, photocopying, 
sharing via email or internet, recording, or other, without written 
permission from the author. 
1

Index & Table 
What are Aspects? ...................................................................3
Misconceptions about Aspects: ...............................................5
Special Aspects:.......................................................................5
Meaning of Planetary Aspects:................................................9
Mutual aspects:......................................................................20
Single/Special Aspects: .........................................................25
Saturn's Aspect ......................................................................26
Jupiter's Aspect......................................................................32
Mars' Aspect ..........................................................................36
Rahu's Aspect ........................................................................40
Ketu's Aspect.........................................................................45
Parivartan Yoga .....................................................................49
Sandhi Aspects: .....................................................................57
Planets Aspect through each House: .....................................59
Sun Aspect Through Houses: ................................................59
Moon Aspect through Houses: ..............................................74
Mars Aspect through Houses: ...............................................87
Mercury Aspects Through Houses: .....................................109
Jupiter Aspects Through Houses:........................................125
Venus Aspects Through Houses:.........................................150
Saturn Aspects Through Houses: ........................................165
Rahu Aspects Through Houses: ..........................................189
Ketu Aspect Through Houses:.............................................209
Alternative Ascendant perspective:.....................................227
Mutual Aspects between Planets:........................................231
RAHU/KETU Special Aspects On Planets: ........................247
Nakshatra Parivartan yogas: (Sukshma Parivartan) ............251
Planets in Nakshatra and their Aspects: ..............................253
Case Studies of Aspects: .....................................................260
Jaimini Astrology aspects:...................................................291
What is Chara Dasha? .........................................................299
Remedy for bad aspects:......................................................301
2

What are Aspects? 
In astrology, aspects simply means seeing something. Person A 
aspects person B in the other room. This simply means that person 
A is looking at person B in the other room. Planets do the same. 
They look at each other in a birth horoscope. Certain planets have 
the ability of seeing certain things. There are planets that can only 
see planets or houses directly opposite to them. There are also 
planets that can see other houses besides the one opposite to them. 
When planets aspect in astrology, they infuse their qualities upon 
the house and planet they are sitting in. This is a very important 
part of astrology, more important than even conjunctions. People 
are aware of conjunctions, but certain events happen in life which 
a conjunction cannot explain, and this is where aspects need to be 
evaluated. 
There can be a positive conjunction of Venus and Mercury in the 
2nd House, which can bring wealth and provide love and 
communication between family members. If Saturn was to aspect 
Venus and Mercury from another house, this will alter the 
condition of the conjunction and the house. Most beginners would 
fail to see this, even some intermediate astrology students. 
Remember, aspect simply means a planet's ability to see other 
houses and planets sitting in them in a birth chart. 
Below is the list of Aspects each planet has: 
Sun- 7th House from itself
Moon - 7th House from itself
Mercury - 7th House from itself
Venus - 7th House from itself 
Mars- 4th, 7th and 8th House from itself 
3

Jupiter - 5th, 7th and 9th House from itself
Saturn - 3rd, 7th and 10th House from itself 
Rahu/Ketu - 5th, 7th and 9th House from themselves. 
What do I mean when I write the words "From itself" in the table? 
If I was to tell you Saturn aspects 3rd, 7th and 10th House, you 
would think that no matter where Saturn sits, he will always look 
at the 3rd House, 7th House and 10th House of the horoscope. 
However, that is incorrect. Saturn aspecting other houses from 
itself means that you must go counter-clockwise to the 3rd, 7th, and 
10th House from where Saturn sits to understand its aspect. 
If Saturn is in the 11th House, this doesn't mean Saturn is looking 
at the 3rd House, 7th House and 10th House. This means, if you go 
counter-clockwise in the north Indian style birth chart of Vedic 
astrology, Saturn would look at the 3rd place from the 11th House, 
which is the 1st House, as in the ascendant. Then, Saturn would 
look at the 7th House which is directly opposite to the 5th House. 
Next, Saturn would look at the 10th place from the 11th House 
which is the 8th House. This is how you judge the aspect of 
planets. You count the places from where they sit. 
Aspects are like a mirror image; it is the ability of a planet to 
reflect back at itself through the house. This is true especially for 
7th House aspect, which is known as direct opposite. 
In western astrology, aspects become quite complicated and 
confusing. Typical terms include: Opposite, Trine, Square, Sextile 
and Quinox. Such terms operate on a degree basis, which is 
cumbersome.
4

Misconceptions about Aspects: 
There are many who follow the rule on aspects which states that all 
planets have some aspect on some house. They will tell you the 
Sun has 20% aspect on the 4th House, 30% aspect on the 5th 
House, and 50% aspect on the 9th House. This type of scenario 
runs for all major planets in Vedic astrology. However, this is 
simply not true and doesn't work. It makes astrology complicated 
when its simplicity is far more powerful. 
Special Aspects: 
In Vedic astrology, aspects are simple. Each planet has been given 
a specific aspect and they must operate with those exact rules. 
Jupiter can aspect the 5th, 7th and 9th place from itself. The Sun 
can only aspect 7th place from itself. It's that simple. You don't 
need to worry about those confusing terms. 
Think of aspects like laser beams shooting out from a planet 
towards certain houses. Earlier, you learned the aspect of each 
planet. In the example below, I will use the aspect of Saturn and 
Jupiter. 
5

Example 1:
Saturn in the 4th House in the sign of Taurus. Number 2 represents 
the 2nd zodiac sign, Taurus. If you do not know how to read a 
chart, please refer to my book Astrology @ The Speed of Light, 
which makes analyzing a birth chart simple and easy.
In Example 1, Saturn is in the 4th House, and the blue lit house 
that you see are the aspects being created by Saturn. If you 
remember, Saturn aspects the 3rd, 7th, and 10th place from itself, 
so if you go counter-clockwise from where Saturn is, the 3rd place 
from 4th House would be the 6th House. If you look at number 4, 
Saturn aspects directly opposite to the 7th place from itself, which 
is the 10th house, where you see number 8 (Scorpio). Finally, it 
aspects the 10th place from itself which is the ascendant, where 
you see number 11(Aquarius). This means Saturn will infuse its 
qualities upon the houses it aspects. 
6

Example 2: 
Jupiter in the 1st House in the sign of Aquarius. Number 11 
represents the 11th sign of the zodiac, Aquarius. If you move 
counter-clockwise from 11, you will come up to the 2nd House 
which is 12 (Pisces). 
From the ascendant, Jupiter now aspects the 5th House where you 
see number 3 (Gemini), 7th house where you see number 5 (Leo), 
and 9th House where you see number 7 (Libra). Jupiter aspects 
5th, 7th, and 9th place from itself. 
7

Example 3:
Mars in the 3rd House in the sign of Gemini is in aspect to the 6th, 
9th, and 10th House. This is an Aries ascendant chart because 
number 1 is in the 1st House, and each house and sign are as is. 
The number 10, represents the 10th House with the 10th sign of 
the zodiac, Capricorn. 
Mars aspects the 4th, 7th, and 8th place from itself. From the 3rd 
House, if you count 4 places, you come to the 6th House, directly 
opposite is the 9th house, and 8 places from the 3rd house is the 
10th house. Mars aspects the 6th, 9th, and 10th House from the 3rd 
House. 
Why do Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars have special aspects, and why 
those particular houses? Because Mars possesses the 4th, 7th, and 
8th aspect. Mars has the 4th aspect because the original 4th House 
represents land or property, and Mars is the karaka of those things.
All planets aspect the 7th House, so it's no surprise that Mars 
aspects directly opposite. 
With the 8th aspect, Mars represents accidents, blood, surgeries, 
cuts, and secrecy. 
8

With respect to Jupiter and the 5th, 7th and 9th aspect, Jupiter 
aspects the 5th House because it's the house of academic education 
and children, and Jupiter is the karaka of such things. 
All planets aspect the 7th House, so it's no surprise that Jupiter 
aspects directly opposite. 
Jupiter's 9th aspect shows wisdom, higher learning, and spiritual 
knowledge. This is why Jupiter has the 9th aspect while being the 
karaka of those qualities. 
With respect to Saturn and the 3rd, 7th and 10th aspect, Saturn has 
the 3rd aspect because the 3rd House shows our efforts, which 
Saturn controls. 
All planets aspect the 7th House so it's not surprise that Mars 
aspects directly opposite. 
Saturn has been given 10th aspect because Saturn is all about work 
and status, while the 10th House is the house of work and status. 
Meaning of Planetary Aspects: 
Each planet in Vedic astrology has a special meaning when they 
aspect a house or planet. They exert a certain kind of influence 
upon them. Below are planets and the meaning of their aspect.
Sun: When the Sun aspects, it shows straightforward direction. It 
gives an authoritative influence upon the planet or house. It can 
show where the person will have responsibility, and give clear 
direction without wasting time. 
9

Moon: The Moon's aspect on other planets and houses shows a 
sense of comfort and welcoming nature. Such an aspect will give a 
kind and motherly influence filled with emotions. 
Mercury: Aspect from Mercury shows where we like to engage, 
communicate, and gather information. It makes the planet or house 
a source of networking, communication, and knowledge with 
analytical skills. 
Venus: Venus' aspect on other planets and houses gives a pleasant 
feeling and desire. We gain a strong sense of finding happiness 
from those things. 
Mars: Mars aspect shows a straight shooter. The planet or house 
becomes a direct type of environment. They want to take actions 
towards those things which are aspected by Mars. They are 
straightforward with aggressive behavior. 
Jupiter: Jupiter’s aspect shows where we feel the need to learn and 
grow as an individual. It shows our desire to achieve a higher level 
of knowledge in our physical and spiritual life. Jupiter is known as 
“blessings from the sky.” Jupiter's aspect saves a planet from 
giving negative results. It either neutralizes the negative result, or 
reverses it into positive territory.  Jupiter's ability to expand can 
increase the positive or negative feeling of the planet. 
Saturn: Saturn's aspect shows where we have to focus our 
attention. Its influence shows where we have to practice the most 
discipline in order to reap the results of our labor. This is why 
Saturn's aspect becomes the most important. This aspect also 
brings fear and anxiety, since we feel so much responsibility in life 
towards those houses. 
 Rahu: Rahu's aspect shows where we need to expand, conquer, 
and achieve. In relation to aspect, Rahu acts like Mars. It has an 
obsession with things that it aspects, and it must achieve its goals 
10

to fulfill its hunger. The reason why Rahu is truly like Saturn is 
because it brings fear towards those things as well. Rahu puts a 
wrapper of illusion or foreign element upon the planets he aspects 
or the houses he aspects. Foreign element simply means things we 
do not understand or are unfamiliar with. 
Ketu: Ketu's aspect on planets show a sense of separation and a 
desire to get away. Since Ketu shows our mastery over the things 
we have already accomplished in past lives, its conjunction, 
placement, and aspect shows where we feel the least amount of 
responsibility. At the same time, one has the ambition to 
experience those things again. 
Rahu and Ketu are illusionary planets, or better eclipse points of 
the Moon. Below is their aspect which is similar to Jupiter. 
Rahu Ketu Aspects: 
The original scriptures of Jyotish written by Maha Rishi Prashara 
never talks about the aspects of Rahu and Ketu since they are blind 
planets and do not have light. You cannot see them in the sky like 
other physical bodies. However, you also have to understand that 
Prashara Hora Shastra, the written text of original astrology, is an 
incomplete book in itself. The book wasn't a manual from A-Z. It 
was a code breaking text which required higher intuitive powers to 
comprehend this divine science. He left it incomplete because he 
wanted the rest of the information, which was just as valuable as 
the physical written text, to be accessed by the chosen ones. Those 
individuals practice extensive sadhna (meditation) and live a 
sawtic lifestyle. Such sadhna exposed more information about 
Jyotish later in the timeline of India. Rishi Bhrigu wrote about the 
aspects of Rahu and Ketu in “Bhrigu Samitha.”. 
The reason why the 5th and 9th House aspect has been assigned to 
Rahu and Ketu is due to their karmic effect. Rahu and Ketu show 
our past life karmas; of what we achieved and failed to achieve, 
11

and what we are to accomplish in this lifetime. The 5th House is 
the house of past life deeds and karma, while the 9th House shows 
the deeds and karma of this lifetime. 
When I first started practicing Vedic astrology, and looked at 
people's chart without using the aspects, I was running into 
problems, including the interpretation of my own horoscope. Once 
I found out about aspects from a noteworthy astrologer, everything 
started to make sense; why certain careers were chosen, why 
marriages took place, and why parental relationships were so 
important.
Example 4: Rahu
The image shows Rahu in the 2nd House giving his aspect upon 
the 6th House, 8th House, and 10th House. Ketu does the same in 
Example 5.
12

Example 5: Ketu
I want to discuss an additional fascinating theory about Rahu/Ketu 
aspects. Many astrologers in South India and some in North India 
believe that Rahu/Ketu also aspect the 12th place from themselves. 
This means Rahu in the 2nd House will also aspect the ascendant, 
as in the 12th place from the 2nd House. After finding out about 
this theory through one of my followers, I began reviewing new 
and old charts. The theory fascinated me quite a bit as it made 
sense in 8 out of 10 horoscopes.
Does this mean I firmly believe that these shadow planets aspect 
the 12th House from themselves? Not yet. Only after reviewing 
500 or more horoscopes can one can come to a concrete decision 
about their aspects. I will be doing such research, and might update 
my theory on these aspects, but wanted to mention them in this 
book for your personal knowledge. Remember, don't look at your 
horoscope on a regular basis, just once every 6 months or so. 
Better yet, if you remember the chart, just judge it in your mind.
For now, only the 5th, 7th, and 9th aspects are valid. 
13

Orb Effect in Aspects: 
There are many methods of studying aspects. You will find 
astrologers who use a full house orb aspect versus a 10-15 degree 
orb aspect. What do I mean by orb? Think of an orb like a 
flashlight in the hands of a planet that is looking over to another 
house. There would be intense light in the center, while the sides 
would fade out, however, you will still see the entire house. 
Example 6: 
You can see how Mars' aspect works. There is an intense head or 
aspect in the middle, while the sides are lighter. This shows that 
even though Mars has a 100% aspect on the entire house, the 
middle aspects are intensified. 
What do I mean by middle aspect? Well, this depends upon the 
degree where Mars is placed. If Mars is at 10 degrees in any sign, 
then it would show an intense aspect to the other house between 5-
10 degrees, while the rest would be less intense. 
14

Example 7: 
 
Mars is in the 10th House in the sign of Capricorn at 15 degrees. 
The 4th House is 30 degrees as long as all the houses are. That 
means since Mars is at 15 degrees, its intense light of aspect will 
be between 10-20 degrees, as in 5 degrees below 15 and 5 degrees 
above 15. 
15

Example 8: 
The 10 degree orb is working in terms of aspect. Mars' red light 
aspect is intense with the 10 degree orb, but less intense after the 
10 degree orb. This is how aspects work. 
Most professional Vedic astrologers use a full degree orb, as in 
Mars being at 15 degrees, and will have an intense light over the 
entire house rather than the 10 degree orb. This still works, but it 
may not fine tune the meaning of aspect.  Having this concept of a 
flashlight scenario does not really work when a planet is looking at 
a house which is empty. It only applies when a planet aspects 
another planet. Having a planet aspect an empty house using the 
flashlight concept doesn't really mean anything.  It is similar to 
throwing a light on an empty box; no matter how intense or less 
intense the light is, you will see the same thing everywhere. 
16

Example 9: 
Mercury is in the 4th House at 15 degrees and the flashlight 
concept is activated. Mercury is an intense aspect of Mars. Mars is 
no longer throwing his flashlight at an empty box. There is 
something inside the box that will either receive intense light or 
very little light.
 
17

Example 10:
Mercury is at 10 degrees where Mars' aspect light is very faint. 
Mercury is not under the spotlight of Mars. 
How would you use this in real life? 
Example 9: Mercury is in the intense light of Mars at the exact 
degree, while Mars is in the 10th House. The speech, 
communication, writing, and analytical skills of the native at home 
will be professional, to the point, business-like, and they might 
even be perceived as rude. Why? Because Mars is in the 10th 
House of career exalted, while Mercury is in the 4th House of 
home. The native would want his home to be like his work. He 
would want everyone in the house to be on guard. They are 
adamant about working towards their professional goals, and want 
to win every argument with their family members. This also shows 
a technical writer who might be working from home, or a home 
based business. There would be a lot of tension between siblings 
due to career matters. 
Mercury = siblings
18

Mars = brothers, blood, fighting, will power, strength and action. 
Why regarding career? Because Mars is in the 10th House of 
career, in aspect to Mercury in the 4th House of home life, 
mother's house, and homeland. 
This also depicts a lot of rude language being used inside the home 
by both parents, especially the mother because the 4th House is the 
house of the mother, while the 10th House is the house of father. 
The father may use intense language towards the mother. 
There are a lot of things that can come out of this aspect when 
applying the house karaka along with planetary karaka. 
In Example 9, you also have to see which houses each planet is 
ruling. We are using an Aries ascendant chart where Mars rules the 
1st and 8th House, and Mercury rules the 3rd and 6th House. 
MERCURY HOUSES
3rd House = siblings, initiative, skills and short travels. 
6th House = disease, enemies, debts, everyday labor. 
MARS HOUSES 
1st House = self, personality, health, and body.
8th House = sudden events, surgeries, accidents, transformation, 
and in-laws. 
Now that we know the houses, we can make another assessment. 
Mars, which is the self as the ascendant Lord, will always have a 
career like a police officer, soldier, fighter, martial artist, or a 
computer programmer. The native will have fluctuations with their 
19

siblings due to career issues. They use intense forms of 
communication within the home. They are courageous due to Mars 
throwing his tough aspect on the 3rd Lord of self motivation. 
From a karaka standpoint, the mother would be very courageous 
due to the father's support. The 10th House karaka (father) is 
throwing the intense heat of Mars upon the 4th House karaka 
(mother). 
This can also trigger sudden blood related diseases upon the 
nervous system and skin. 
Before we complete my analysis of Example 9, we must note that 
Mercury is also giving off intense light towards Mars since planets 
look directly opposite of each other. 
Thus far, I have been talking about Mars' influence upon Mercury. 
We will also discuss Mercury's influence upon Mars in Mutual 
Aspects.
Mutual aspects: 
Mutual aspects are simply two planets looking at each other from 
opposite ends or through special aspects. 
20

Example 11:
There is a mutual aspect between Mercury and Mars because they 
are both looking directly across from each other.
A mutual aspect does several things in a chart. It gives it energy, 
and brings it to life. There is a lot of activity, especially when the 
two houses have mutual aspects. 
The two planets are constantly looking at each other.  Just as if two 
people are looking at each other directly, there is bound to be some 
conversation and exchange of ideas. However, the two natives 
could also be bitter, and cursing each other. Similarly, the way two 
planets behave in mutual aspects requires analysis of each 
individual planet. Is the planet exalted or debilitated in its own 
sign? What degree and nakshatra of any one of the planets 
involved in mutual aspect are in conjunction to some other planet? 
In Example 11, Mercury and Mars are looking at each other. Both 
planets are infusing each other. Mercury is sharing his energy with 
Mars, and Mars is sharing his energy with Mercury. This is quite 
different from a conjunction, because the energy exchange is not 
21

happening in the same house. They are happening in two different 
houses. 
Let's get back to Example 10. If two planets have a mutual aspect 
but their degrees are different, how will that impact the aspect? In 
Example 10 you have Mercury at 3 degrees Cancer, while Mars is 
at 15 degree Capricorn. This simply means that both planets are 
impacting one another about 20-30%. If Mercury was to have an ill 
or aggressive speech value of 10, with an exact aspect like 
Example 9, then Example 10 would have an aggressive speech 
value of 4 or 5. Everything I discussed in Example 9 would 
decrease by 30-40%, but it would still be present. 
22

Example 12:
There is a mutual aspect between Mercury and Mars, but this time 
the degrees are different along with the houses. Mercury is in the 
5th House, in the sign of Leo at 19 degrees while Mars is in the 
11th House in the sign of Aquarius at 15 degrees. Since Mercury is 
within a 10 degree orb of Mars, it’s receiving an intense aspect 
from Mars. This time the aggressive speech style along with quick 
thinking will occur with love affairs, academic studies, children 
and creativity. The 5th House represents romance. The native is   
very straightforward and passionate with their romantic partner. 
Mars always adds the scent of passion along with aggression. 
Since Mercury controls the 3rd and 6th, while Mars controls the 1st 
and 8th, there is a creative passion within the person to write, act, 
and paint. They have a natural way of mimicking other people and 
can be quite comedic since the 11th House shows networking and 
events, while the 5th House shows performing arts. The native can 
perform and be comedic in front of a large organization. They have 
a talent for graphic design, creative engineering, and architecture. 
Why am I not showing the rays of Mercury? Why is Mars only 
influencing Mercury? Here is a little tiny secret about aspects and 
23

conjunction. Malefic planets will have more impact on benefic 
planets than benefic on malefic. However, there are times when 
natural benefic will influence natural malefic. 
Example 13: 
Mercury's rays of aspect. How would you truly judge this mutual 
aspect? 
When it comes to thinking and calculating things in life, this native 
would be impulsive, aggressive, quick, and technical. In terms of 
physical action, they would use their intelligence to win the war. 
Once you add the element of house rulership, you can go even 
deeper into the aspect. 
24

Example 14:
In Example 14, we are seeing the same image as Example 13, but 
this time we want to use the nakshatra of these planets since we 
know their degrees. Mercury is in the nakshatra of Purva Phalguni, 
ruled by Venus. Mars is in the nakshatra of Shatabhisha, ruled by 
Rahu. 
Mercury is acting very creatively. Mercury also wants to 
experience a very energetic and communicative relationship with 
the opposite sex since Venus represents relationships. Mars' aspect 
is making Mercury more energized and passionate. Mars is also in 
Rahu nakshatra, so he is bringing obsession with the 5th House. 
This person is obsessed with sex, romance, creativity, and studies. 
They can be a computer fanatic, video game addict, or 
programmer. They have tremendous mimicking and speaking 
skills. 
Single/Special Aspects: 
25

Single aspects occur when only one planet aspects another planet. 
This happens in special aspect circumstances with planets like 
Mars, Saturn, Jupiter, Rahu, and Ketu. 
When a planet has a special aspect, it’s able to see beyond the 
ability of 7th aspect, which is a mutual aspect if two planets are 7th 
from each other. There are many horoscopes where only one 
planet sees the other planets. What impact does that have? 
Saturn's Aspect
Saturn aspect: 3, 7 and 10 
Example 15:
 
Venus is in the 10th House with Saturn in the 8th House.  We can 
clearly see that both planets are not opposite of each other, so they 
cannot see one another directly, but Saturn can still see Venus. 
Saturn's special 3rd aspect is looking towards Venus from the 8th 
House. 
26

Example 16: 
Saturn's 3rd aspect is on the 10th House if you count 3 places 
counterclockwise from Saturn. Only Saturn is impacting Venus but 
Venus is not impacting Saturn. How would you read this? 
Saturn = delay, restriction, discipline, structure, and organization. 
Venus = love, relationship, desire, happiness, women, wife, and 
creativity. 
8th House = secret dealings of government issues, occult, 
knowledge, in-laws, taxes, sudden events or sudden fluctuations
10th House = status in society, father, government, and career. 
Saturn's 3rd aspect regarding willpower and effort is showing that 
the native will have to be motivated in their career. The 10th 
House related to career and Venus represents acting, cinema, 
singing, modeling, fashion, and designing. Venus also represents 
marriage. This chart demonstrates that a lot of effort is required in 
making a marriage work, the native may marry an older partner, 
and it might happen late in life. 
27

This also shows that marriage is more about maturity, discipline, 
and managing a family than romance and love. Saturn is best 
friends with Venus, so in this case he also gives lot of mechanical 
and creative ability to Venus. The marriage might lack warmth, but 
it lasts. 
Saturn in the 8th House slows down the sudden fluctuations in life, 
and maintains the balance since it is the karaka of the 8th House. 
Example 17:
The sign placements of planets. We have a Taurus ascendant with 
Venus in the sign of Aquarius in the 10th House, and Saturn in the 
sign of Sagittarius in the 8th House. Now we can determine what 
house affects these planets, and how Saturn’s aspect will take 
effect.
Saturn for Taurus ascendant rules two of the most important 
houses: the 9th House and 10th House. It becomes the yogakaraka 
of this ascendant. Venus is the ascendant Lord and the 6th Lord. 
28

Venus is sitting in Saturn's own house and sign. This means 
Saturn's aspect is within its own house, and brings protection to the 
house. Venus, being the best friend of Saturn, is becoming part of 
that protection. The native may be a workaholic since it's the 
ascendant Lord being aspected by Saturn, the planet of work and 
effort. It will give sudden career advancement and blessings in the 
status of the native’s work life. 
Remember the rule of thumb. Whether planets are best friends or 
bitter enemies, they will always share their natural significance 
upon other planets in aspect and conjunction. Although Venus is 
getting support from yogakaraka Saturn, it will still frustrate Venus 
and delay things related to Venus. 
Example 18: 
The degrees are revealed. Venus is in a very tight aspect of 
Saturn's orb. This can demonstrate the pure hard aspect of Saturn 
with regards to a tremendous work ethic, harshness in romance and 
life, and the need for stability and security in marriage, career, and 
all relationships. The native is always involved with professional 
women. There is also lot of fear and anxiety towards the idea of 
marriage, dealing with women, and female co-workers. 
29

Example 19: 
Venus is at 26 degree Aquarius and about to exit the sign while 
there is a good 11 degree difference between Venus and Saturn. 
This softens the aspect of Saturn. If Venus was to work 15 hours a 
day in Example 18, now it's working 10 hours a day because of 
distance in degree. Although being 11 degrees apart is still not far 
enough, it won't be as dominating as the previous example. 
30

Example 20: 
Saturn at 5 degrees while Venus is at 27 degrees. There is a 22 
degree difference between two planets, so the aspect is hardly felt 
on Venus. Instead of working 10-16 hours a day, Venus would be 
working 6-8 hours a day, and would be far more romantic and soft 
compare to previous two examples. 
We can also study the nakshatra from Example 20. Saturn is in the 
Mula nakshatra ruled by Ketu, and Venus is in the Dhanishta 
nakshatra ruled by Mars. 
Saturn’s aspect is also giving the orb of Ketu. While being in the 
8th House of occult, and in the nakshatra of the planet that 
represents occult knowledge, Venus' pleasure and career happiness 
can come from dealing with the occult and mysterious subjects. 
They can be healers, doctors, astrologers, or any kind of 
investigative expert. 
However, the nakshatra effect is very little compared to the 
planet's own power and qualities. The planet behaves like the Lord 
of the nakshatra he sits in. If Saturn is giving 15% effect of the 
nakshatra Lord, then 85% is its own qualities. 
31

Jupiter's Aspect
Example 21: 
Jupiter is in the 10th House and Mars in the 6th House. Again, 
there is no mutual aspect between Jupiter and Mars. However, 
Jupiter is able to aspect Mars from his special 9th aspect. 
32

Example 22: 
Jupiter is glancing at Mars from his 9th aspect. If you go 
counterclockwise from Jupiter, and count 9 places with Jupiter 
being the 1st place, you will end up at Mars. How would you read 
this aspect? 
10th House = status in society, father, government, and career. 
6th House = enemies, debts, disease, obstacles and warzone.
Jupiter = knowledge, wisdom, higher learning, optimism, and 
guidance. 
Mars = fighting, blood, cuts, anger, action, energy, passion, and 
physical work. 
This aspect shows that Mars is in the 6th House, which is a very 
good placement for Mars. He now has the guidance, knowledge, 
and wisdom from a teacher to win battles, fight disease, and cut 
through any obstacles related to career. Mars will have great 
optimism within to win battles. 
33

Example 23: 
We can see the signs the planets are placed in. We have Cancer 
ascendant with Jupiter in Aries in the 10th House, while Mars is in 
Sagittarius in the 6th House. 
We can quickly see that Jupiter is a functional malefic for this 
ascendant while Mars is the yogakaraka. We also see that Jupiter 
and Mars are exchanging signs and creating a parivartan yoga, 
which we will discuss later. Parivartan yoga is another type of 
special aspect. 
Jupiter is in the 10th House of career, creating a good status in the 
community. This native is becoming very authoritative as a 
preacher and teacher. The placement of Mars makes one’s career 
an uphill battle, with many obstacles to overcome. Jupiter's aspect, 
which is also the karaka of law, can make Mars a litigator, freedom 
fighter, community leader of non-profit organization, police 
officer, or a doctor. 
34

Example 24: 
The degrees are observed. Jupiter is at 13 degrees, while Mars is at 
8 degrees. Both have a 5 degree difference, making Mars a strong 
orb of Jupiter. This shows authority in the workplace, with a great 
reputation and ability to fight and win all battles related to law, 
government, and medicine. 
When observing nakshatras, Jupiter is in the nakshatra of Ashvini, 
while Mars is in the nakshatra of Mula. 
This shows strong inclinations towards medicine, surgery, and 
careers related to the medical field. Ashvini nakshatra represents a 
1000 doctors or the medicine man, and it's ruled by Ketu, who is 
another karaka for surgery, cuts, and blood. Mars being in Mula 
nakshatra ruled by Ketu again shows knowledge of medicine and 
going to the root of things to obtain a solution. Jupiter's single 
aspect on Mars shows that Mars will have the knowledge, 
guidance, and divine grace to find the root cause of disease.  
35

Mars' Aspect
Example 25: 
Mars is in the 5th House and Venus in the 8th House. There is no 
mutual aspect between the two, but Mars is glancing over at Venus 
with his 4th aspect. If you count 4 places from Mars 
counterclockwise, you will arrive at Venus. 
36

Example 26: 
Mars’ orb upon Venus. What does this mean? 
Venus = love, relationship, desire, happiness, women, wife, and 
creativity. 
8th House = secret dealings of government issues, occult 
knowledge, in-laws, taxes, sudden events or fluctuations, and 
secret affairs. 
Mars = fighting, blood, cuts, anger, action, energy, physical work, 
and passion. 
5th House = children, creativity, academic education, and 
speculative business. 
Venus in the 8th House shows a very amorous married life with 
wealthy in-laws, and a spouse who may bring wealth. With an 
aspect from Mars, it shows tremendous sexual passion, love, 
romance, and relationships. Mars is transmitting a one-way energy 
upon Venus and energizing it. Such an aspect can also lead to 
37

secret affairs or even homosexuality, but other factors have to be 
considered. 
Example 27:
Mars is in Scorpio in the 5th House, while Venus is in Aquarius in 
the 8th House. How would you analyze this? 
For a Cancer ascendant, Mars is a yogakaraka planet. Venus 
controls the 4th and 11th House. This aspect can show that the 
spouse may be very creative due to Mars' 5th House aspect. There 
will be a love marriage rather than an arranged marriage. Since 
Mars is in the sign of Scorpio which represents secrecy, occult, 
and affairs, it can lead a person into having extramarital romances 
with people from work or in politics.
38

Example 28: 
Observe the degrees of the planets. Venus and Mars have a 10 
degree difference. This means Venus is still in the orb of Mars, but 
it's neither heavy nor light. It's right on the border. This means that 
Venus will still feel the passion, aggression, and impulsiveness 
towards romance, love, and relationships. Such a native is 
impulsive about falling in love with many partners and in their 
sexual behavior. 
We can also study the nakshatra this way. Mars is in the nakshatra 
of Jyeshrha, ruled by Mercury and Venus is in the nakshatra of 
Shatabhisha, ruled by Rahu. Although Mars is enforcing its own 
personality upon Venus, it’s also sharing love for the underworld, 
communication, and overblown ego. Such a Venus will not only be 
passionate, but also be lustful about the darker side of sex. The 
native might be into fetishes of some kind, and will fall in love 
with men or women who have a dark past of sexual abuse, or 
suffer abuse from family members.
39

Rahu's Aspect
Example 29: 
 
Rahu is in the 2nd House and Mercury is in the 6th House. There 
is no mutual aspect, but Rahu has his special 5th aspect upon 
Mercury. If you count 5 places from Rahu counterclockwise, you 
will end up at Mercury. 
40

Example 30: 
Rahu is exerting his influence on the 5th aspect Mercury. What 
does this mean? 
Rahu = foreign, extravagant, clever, liar, cheat, obsessive about 
worldly desire and achievements. 
2nd House = wealth, family, voice. 
Mercury = communication, logic, analysis, skills, business, 
manager, writer, journalist, and speech. 
6th House = debts, diseases, obstacles, enemies. 
This aspect by Rahu will amplify Mercury's need to compete in 
financial wars and win through cheating and manipulation. The 
speech of the native is utilized in arguments, breaking contracts, 
litigation, and discussing disease. When Rahu aspects a planet, it 
doesn't amplify the quality of the planet like it does in conjunction. 
Rather, it makes the planet hungry for more of what it already 
possesses, and seeks to accomplish its goals. In conjunction, two 
planets are in the same house. In aspect, two planets are in two 
41

separate houses. In the 2nd House, Rahu is hungry for wealth, and 
when he aspects any planet, it makes that planet hungry for wealth 
as well through where the planet is located. In Example 30, Rahu 
aspects Mercury. It is making Mercury hungry to make money 
through disease, other people's debts, accounting, and 
communicating with the enemy through debate. 
Example 31: 
Observe the signs. This is a Libra ascendant chart with Rahu in 
Scorpio in the 2nd House, and Mercury in Pisces in the 6th House. 
How would you read this? 
Rahu = foreign, extravagant, clever, liar, cheat, obsessive about 
worldly desire and achievements. 
2nd House = wealth, family, voice. 
Scorpio = secrecy, occult, hidden truth, dark passion, and deep 
desires. 
Mercury = communication, logic, analysis, skills, business, 
manager, writer, journalist and speech. 
42

6th House = debts, diseases, obstacles, enemies. 
Pisces = imagination, spirituality, peace, and isolation. 
Rahu's aspect on Mercury shows that one will have a very wicked 
mind and a foul mouth with a constant need to lie. This is due to 
the fact that both planets are known to be debilitated in this 
ascendant. Since Mercury is debilitated and it controls speech, 
Rahu from the 2nd House of speech aspects the weak Mercury, 
making it more fragile. Such a person will be needy due to their 
extravagant lifestyle, while lying to others to gain wealth. Mercury 
will even make them capable of blackmail. This is due to Rahu in 
Scorpio attaining secrets of family and in-laws. It exerts its quality 
towards Mercury, forcing its intelligence to take advantage of such 
secrets to gain wealth. 
43

Example 32: 
The degrees of planets. Rahu is at 17 degrees and Mercury is at 13 
degrees. Rahu is in the nakshatra of Jyeshtha ruled by Mercury, 
and Mercury is in the nakshatra of Uttra Bhadrapada ruled by 
Saturn. 
Rahu is also transforming himself into Mercury, but the clever and 
negative side of Mercury. This is why Rahu's aspect is showing 
Mercury slightly in his own mirror image. 
Remember, Rahu has the ability to transform itself into the planets 
whose sign it sits in. In our case it's Mars. It is aggressive and 
impulsive here, and can become a very clever businessman. 
44

Ketu's Aspect 
Example 33: 
Ketu is in the 11th House and the Sun is in the 7th House. As I 
discussed, Ketu has a special aspect of 5 and 9. From the 11th 
House, Ketu aspects the 5th and 9th House. 
Example 34: 
45

Ketu’s impact on the 7th House. 
Ketu= separation, disinterest, isolation, and sense of abandonment. 
11th House = gains, friends, network circles, and elder siblings. 
Sun = ego, personality, father, soul, and our dignity. 
7th House= marriage, legal partnerships, other people, and 
business or trade.
When Ketu is in the 11th House, the native has few friends. It also 
shows unplanned wealth and profits in life which the native will 
give away to the underprivileged. Ketu's aspect on the 7th House 
shows a disconnect with their partner or father. They might even 
battle government officials. The father would either be separated 
from the native, or he would travel much of his life and not be 
present. 
The 7th House represents marriage, spouse, and partnerships. The 
native would be very much against settling for anyone. They will 
be dissatisfied with most of the people in their life, especially their 
spouse. 
46

Example 35: 
Observe the signs and ascendant. The chart is Libra ascendant with 
Ketu in the sign of Leo in the 11th House, while the Sun is in the 
sign of Aries in the 7th House. 
Now we can understand more about Ketu's aspect. Ketu in the sign 
of Leo shows no resistance to fame, politics, theater, and the arts. 
It feels indifferent to such things. Ketu feels it has mastery over the 
creative side of life and has a political advantage. The 11th House 
shows fluctuations within network circles connected to the 
government and entertainment. They reject most of their friends, 
and feel that they do not need political connections to receive gains 
in life. Such an aspect on an exalted Sun in the 7th House shows 
that the spouse will be very spiritual, dominating, and connected to 
either politics or entertainment. However, the native and their 
spouse will clash due to two malefic influences on the 7th House. 
One is of the Sun, and the other is of Ketu's aspect. 
As mentioned in my book, “Conjunctions @ The Speed of Light,” 
when exalted planets are in conjunction with Rahu or Ketu, they 
receive the positive side of the nodes. If the planets are debilitated 
47

or neutral, then such planets receive the malefic side of Rahu and 
Ketu. 
In Example 35, you can see that the Sun is exalted, and Ketu is in 
the sign of Sun. This shows that the Sun won't be eclipsed by Ketu. 
Ketu will add a sense of spirituality and occult powers within the 
spouse and the native's own personality. Since Ketu is a natural 
malefic, the spouse will be away from the native for long 
durations. 
Example 36: 
Observe the degrees of both planets. This will show you what 
nakshatra they are sitting in. Ketu is at 17 degrees Leo, or in the 
nakshatra of Purva Phalguni ruled by Venus. The Sun is at 18 
degrees Aries and in the nakshatra of Bharani, also ruled by 
Venus. 
How would you read this aspect? 
Ketu being in the nakshatra of Purva Phalguni shows that it will 
have the tendency to reject marital bliss and satisfaction. It feels it 
already has mastery over companionship.
48

This aspect clearly shows the native will be dissatisfied by their 
spouse due to lack of romance and dominating ego.
Parivartan Yoga
Parivartan Yoga is a special mutual aspect. We will now talk about 
its deeper meaning. 
Yogas are simply a union of planets that create a certain type of 
situation in a person's chart. It could be a good situation or a bad 
situation. 
What is Parivartan yoga? 
Parivartan yoga occurs when two planets exchange each other's 
signs. In Example 23, you had Jupiter in the sign of Aries ruled by 
Mars, and Mars in the sign of Sagittarius ruled by Jupiter. How is 
this a special type of mutual aspect? 
49

Example 37: 
Mars is in the 6th House Sagittarius, and Jupiter is in the 10th 
House in Aries. How is this a mutual aspect? 
The reason why this is a mutual aspect is because both are in each 
other's houses making a telepathic connection. They both are 
aware of each other's presence in their own houses. Such planets 
make a deal with each other. I won't destroy your house if you 
don't destroy mine. Such a deal can go good or bad based on two 
aspects:
 1. If two planets involved in parivartan yoga are natural friends or 
enemies. 
2. If two planets are in good or bad houses. 
If you have read my book, “Astrology @ The Speed of Light,” you 
would know that Jupiter and Mars are natural friends. 
When judging parivartan yoga, one must always pay attention to 
the houses more than the sign. Observe which two houses are 
involved in the mutual exchange, and what two other houses the 
50

planet rules. Each planet in astrology, besides the Sun and Moon, 
rule two houses. 
Since we are dealing with Cancer ascendant, we know 
automatically what houses Jupiter and Mars rule. 
Mars rules - 5th and 10th House
Jupiter rules - 6th and 9th House 
We also have to realize that the 6th House is considered a difficult 
house in astrology along with 8 and 12. This brings us to a point 
where you must know 3 types of parivartan yoga (special aspect): 
 Dainya Parivartan yoga
 Khala Parivartan yoga 
 Maha Parivartan yoga 
Dainya Parivartan yoga occurs when the Lord of the 6th, 8th, and 
12th exchange signs with any of the other houses. 
If 6th, 8th or 12th exchanged houses with 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10 and 
11th Lord, it would be considered Dainya Parivartan yoga. 
Khala Parivartan yoga occurs when Lord of the 3rd House 
exchanges places with any of the other 11 houses like 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 
7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. This yoga gives fluctuations in life, and 
mixed results depending upon planets and the other houses they 
rule. 
Maha Parivartan yoga occurs when Lord of the kendra and trikon 
exchanges places in House 1, 4, 7 and 10, and exchange places 
51

with 5th and 9th House. This is the most auspicious of all special 
aspects. 
Knowing these three parivartan yogas will help you determine 
what the result of the aspect will be. 
In Example 37, we can now see that there is a Dainya Parivartan 
yoga occurring. How would you read this? 
When you read parivartan yoga, you must notice which house 
comes first in the exchange. In other words, from the ascendant, 
which house is the first to arrive. Since the 6th House comes 
before the 10th House, we have to start from the 6th House. 
Mars in the 6th House does very well as a natural malefic. The 
native will destroy his enemies and will gain power in career 
through winning many battles and oppositions. Jupiter being the 
10th house shows that there is a link between 10th and 6th house, 
including 5th and 9th house. This shows there will be rise in career 
during Jupiter and Mars maha and antar dasha. 5th and 9th house 
are both karaka of education. This shows that education will be 
greatly influenced by Jupiter and Mars, that means a civil engineer, 
doctor, surgeon and even law school. But since this is Dainya 
Parivartan yoga, the native will face lot of struggles in the initial 
stages of career and education but will prevail due to powerful 
Mars in 6th house. 
52

Parivartan yoga can be an aspect and conjunction at the same time. 
Example 38: 
In Example 38, you have khala parivartan yoga occurring as the 
3rd Lord Mercury has exchanged signs with 9th Lord Jupiter. The 
3rd House is a mild malefic as it’s 8th from the 8th House. It's the 
4th most malefic house after 6th, 8th, and 12th. 
Jupiter in the 3rd House in Virgo makes a very critical and 
analytical person who is a salesman that goes into too much detail 
and may loses his customers or  business deal. This could also be 
someone who might be an author who writes critically about local 
society and government. This can cause a lot of criticism by other 
people towards the native, and bring about discomfort due to their 
critical literary work. Jupiter will eventually make a call to 
Mercury sitting in Pisces in the 9th House. This shows that 
Mercury, who is the karaka for siblings and lord of the 3rd House, 
will find a way to receive higher learning. They will have an open 
and broad mind, and a sense of proper communication through 
53

their younger brother or sister, or perhaps even friends. This shows 
that the person's sense of higher purpose, learning, and 
communication skills will come through the inspiration of youth, 
imagination, art and even traveling. 
Example 39: 
Observe the same ascendant, but the parivartan yoga is occurring 
between 3rd and 6th Lord. 
This is a mix of khala yoga and dianya yoga. Two malefic yogas 
will only produce a malefic yoga. The native’s siblings become   
the enemy, and relationships with teachers and gurus will be 
tumultuous. They won't listen to advice from others. When Jupiter 
will make the call to Mercury to help, Mercury will again backstab 
Jupiter and expose his secrets. Jupiter and Mercury rule the 12th 
House and 9th House. This means that energy of the 9th and 12th 
are also coming into play here. Through conflict with their 
siblings, the native would find spirituality and higher education as 
a way to cope with domestic issues. They may pursue an education 
in foreign lands to get away from siblings and enemies. This also 
shows Jupiter's critical preaching and teaching behavior will 
54

improve with time since Jupiter is in a upachaya house. The 
relationship with siblings, too, will get better with time as Mercury 
is also in a upachaya house. The native may find it difficult to 
serve others, as too much criticism will lead to creating many 
enemies, especially criticism of their siblings. 
Example 40: 
Cancer ascendant with Saturn in the 4th House and Venus in the 
7th House. Both planets are sitting in each other's signs. Since the 
exchange is between two kendra houses, it shows a maha 
parivartan yoga even though a trikona house is not involved. How 
would you read this? 
First, Saturn is in the 4th House of mother and nourishment. Being 
a cold and malefic planet, there would be strict discipline from the 
mother, which would make the native a very mature person at an 
early age. Even though the native is happy about the mother's 
teachings, they still feel a lack of love and motherly nourishment 
from her. This why Saturn will call Venus in the 7th House and 
55

ask for help. Venus is in the 7th House of marriage, and Venus 
represents the spouse. The male native would receive nourishment 
from his wife, who will fulfill the role of mother. Since Venus also 
rules the 11th House of gains, friends, and elder siblings, and 
Saturn rules the 8th House of death, rebirth, transformations, and 
fluctuations, the native will see sudden changes in friend circles 
and income. They may have sudden fluctuations with their spouse 
as well.
Since Saturn represents delay, Saturn can bring marriage later in 
life, and allow for a more fulfilling spouse than if married early. 
The spouse will also be more mature in personality or age, which  
makes it easier for them to becoming a maternal figure. Since 
Venus is 4 houses away from the 4th House, as in 4th from the 4th, 
it also shows foreign lands. The spouse could be of a different 
culture or from foreign lands due to Saturn's special aspect upon 
Venus. 
A sambandha or parivartan yoga also shows the broad picture as 
well. In example 40 Venus is in the 7th house of marriage and 
Saturn is in the 4th house of home. This shows that there is a very 
strong possibility of the native getting married in Saturn and Venus 
periods. 
56

Sandhi Aspects: 
What are Sandhi aspects? 
Sandhi aspects are simply an invisible aspect that occurs in a chart 
even if two planets are not in a mutual aspect. 
Let me simplify it for you. 
Example 41: 
Saturn aspects the 10th House while sitting in the 4th House at 2 
degrees, in the sign of Libra. Venus, on the other hand, is in the 9th 
House at 29 degrees in the sign of Pisces. Venus is 1 degree away 
from entering the 10th House, while Saturn is at 2 degrees in the 
4th House. Saturn and Venus are less than 3 degrees apart. 
Anytime you have a planet 3 degrees or less away from being 
directly in front of the other planet you have a sandhi aspect. This 
is because there are no boundaries in the sky. House boundaries 
57

are something that was invented by Prashara, the father of 
astrology. 
Example 42: 
You do not see the boundaries of the houses. This is how planets 
are in the sky when you look up. One cannot determine when 
Venus has entered the 10th House. The orb of Saturn is still able to 
impact Venus since they are only 3 degrees apart from mutually 
seeing each other. In this case, Saturn has an aspect on Venus. 
Saturn will infuse his qualities upon Venus. If you have a delayed 
marriage, and you can't figure out why, it's probably due to sandhi 
aspect. 
Sandhi aspect is a special mutual aspect that occurs when there is a 
3 degree or less difference between two planets, while one planet 
is in the previous house directly opposite to the other planet. 
58

Planets Aspect through each House: 
In this chapter, I will demonstrate each planetary aspect through all 
the houses, and how their aspect may impact the other houses even 
though planets may not be present at the end of their glance. 
 Sun 
 Moon
 Mars
 Mercury
 Jupiter
 Venus
 Saturn
 Rahu
 Ketu
Sun Aspect Through Houses: 
Sun: When the Sun aspects, it shows straightforward direction. It 
gives an authoritative influence upon the planet or house, and can 
show where the person would have responsibility and direction 
without wasting time. The Sun's ability to give confidence, ego, 
and self-esteem would transform the house it aspects, which is the 
7th place from itself. 
I will use the terms: exalted, debilitated, and own sign. This should 
be taken as is. The Sun can be in good dignity, bad dignity, or 
neutral. The Sun can be good in the sign of Taurus, or bad in the 
sign of Taurus. The Sun can be good in the sign of Aries, or bad in 
the sign of Aries which is his exalted placement. If the Sun has 
conjunction of a malefic planet, then his value as an exalted Sun 
can decrease. You should know these principles from my previous 
59

two books on astrology and conjunction to assess a powerful 
(exalted) Sun or a weak (debilitated) Sun. 
Sun Aspect on the 7th House: 
When the Sun is in the 1st House, it aspects the 7th House. This 
means that the Sun will reveal the truth regarding one’s spouse, 
and will illuminate life in the 7th House. Perhaps the Sun's ego 
will transform towards the partner, and becomes a life partner. 
There would be a need to dominate their significant other and seek 
attention. They feel like they are king, and their partner is a 
servant. However, if the Sun is in his own sign or exalted in Aries, 
it can bring about a partner who is truthful, follows the law, and is 
highly spiritual. They will have confidence in their ability to 
nourish the marriage. The spouse will have leadership qualities to 
raise a family, and perhaps provide for the family. If the Sun is 
debilitated around 5-12 degrees in Libra, it will show domination 
over the spouse, and even publicly insulting or degrading them. 
They will be short tempered over small things, and that will create 
a lot of arguments in the marriage. 
60

Sun Aspect on the 8th House: 
The Sun in the 2nd House shares an aspect on the 8th House. This 
shows a great deal of respect for family. The 8th House is the 
house of transformation, death, rebirth, occult, taxes, and surgeries. 
The Sun's ability to illuminate brings a great deal of interest in 
investigating for the government, or working undercover for 
authorities. One's own family becomes the source of 
transformation. With the Sun's ability to illuminate, the native is 
easily able to find spirituality, occult, and help from secret sources. 
If the Sun is exalted in his own sign, then the Sun's aspect will 
bring wealth, status, and honor through the spouse’s family. If the 
Sun is debilitated, one will seek to possess everything they have 
been given from their family. They can also take resources and 
wealth of their spouse’s family due to its 8th House aspect. If the 
Sun is neutral or in good condition, one will be devoted to their 
61

own family and will provide resources to increase the status of 
their spouse's family. 
Sun Aspect on the 9th House: 
The Sun in the 3rd House shows many skill sets. One can be a 
great artist, writer, engineer, actor, salesman, or government 
servant. Its aspect on the 9th House shows serving a higher 
purpose through their skill set. The 9th House represents teachers, 
gurus, father's teaching, government principles, law, philosophy, 
and higher education. The Sun from the 3rd House shows that one 
will be devoted to their teachers, fathers, and law of the land. This 
will happen as long as the Sun is not debilitated. A debilitated 
Sun's aspect on the 9th House will try to overthrow one's own 
gurus and father. They will feel threatened by higher authorities, 
and not follow the law of the land. The Sun in the 3rd House can 
show a government administrator due to his glance towards the 9th 
House, however, most of the time it shows interest in higher 
learning. This is especially true regarding skills of hands like 
62

engineer, sculptor, or sales manager. Exalted Sun or the Sun in his 
own sign aspect in the 9th House shows tremendous respect for 
one's teacher and for their father's teachings. They will take great 
interest in studying the law, and become the beacon of light for 
higher teachings and religious purposes. 
Sun Aspect on the 10th House:
The Sun in the 4th House aspects the 10th House. This shows that 
one's career will be greatly be influenced by their mother, home, 
and childhood. The 10th House is career, status, honor, 
government, and the relationship with one's own father. The 4th 
House is the private side of life, since the Sun happens to be in the 
4th House at midnight when the world is asleep. Such people love 
domestic life most of the time. The aspect of the Sun on the 10th 
House shows that the native is strongly inclined towards having a 
home based business, or an opportunity to work from home. 
Exalted Sun, or the Sun in his own sign, will show one's 
attachment to their homeland and mother. Their mother will take   
on the role of their father in life. This is true even for a debilitated 
Sun. A debilitated Sun will be like a double edge sword. One will 
be greatly influenced by their mother, but at the same time, have 
63

an ego clash with her and constant arguments. Debilitated Sun's 
aspect on the 10th House shows a bad relationship with their father 
and a dislike towards taking orders from authority. In the 4th 
House, the Sun loses his directional strength. 
Sun Aspect on the 11th House: 
The Sun in the 5th House aspects the 11th House of network 
circles, gains, elder brothers and sisters, and one's goals. The 5th 
House represents children, creativity, romance, past life deeds, and 
politics. This shows that the Sun's aspect on the 11th House 
reveals one's dominance over their professional network circles, 
friends, and elder siblings. The Sun brightens the quality of the 5th 
House which is about fun, creativity, sports, and art. At the same 
time, its aspect on the 11th House shows the Sun's ability to 
illuminate his path and achieve his goals, hopes, and wishes. One 
will have friends and a network circle in highly important places 
connected to government and senior executives if it’s exalted or in 
his own sign. A debilitated Sun will generate interest in art, acting, 
cinema, and performing arts, but their 11th House situation would 
be highly vulnerable. The debilitated Sun's aspect on the 11th 
House depicts very few friends who might be of a lower class and 
64

dishonest. The native will take advantage of his network circle 
through his creative ideas and children. The overblown ego of the 
debilitated Sun will try to seek control of one's friends and 
networks. 
Sun Aspect on the 12th House: 
The Sun in the 6th House aspects the 12th House. The 12th House 
is the house of isolation, jails, hospitals, foreign lands, spirituality, 
donations, and monasteries. In the 6th House, the Sun becomes 
malefic, especially if in its own sign. The 6th House rules debts, 
diseases, social work, everyday work life, small animals, enemies, 
and obstacles. The Sun illuminates the 6th House, and exposes the 
native’s enemies; reducing them to ashes. If the Sun is in good 
dignity or exalted, in his own sign or neutral, then one will do 
charity work related to the government, medicine, and marketing. 
However, the Sun's aspect on the 12th House shows that one must 
serve others selflessly in order reap the results of moksha, 
enlightenment, and peace. One will have to go through many 
obstacles in life in order gain a spiritual sense of their mission as a 
human being. Exalted Sun, or the Sun in his own sign, can show a 
great affinity towards work related to serving the underprivileged 
65

and elderly. It can make a person a doctor, or go into the field of 
medicine. Through the Sun's aspect on the 12th House, the native 
may work in hospitals and in isolation. If a debilitated Sun is in the 
6th House, then the native may run into defeat, hurting those who 
are powerless; even killing small animals. Such behavior will land 
a person into jail due to the Sun's aspect on the 12th House. With a 
heavy workload in the public service sector, the native enjoys 
times of isolation and visiting foreign lands. 
Sun's Aspect on the Ascendant (1st House) 
The Sun in the 7th House aspects the ascendant. The 7th House 
symbolizes marriage, spouse, legal partnerships, other people, 
public life, fame, and business. The Sun aspects the 1st House of 
self, personality, and body. The Sun is the karaka of personality. In 
the 7th House, the Sun is dedicated to public life and loves dealing 
with other people. However, the Sun is not really happy here. It is 
as if the King (Sun) has to go down to the marketplace to deal with 
the public instead of them coming to his royal palace. The Sun in 
the 7th can produce a very egoistic, proud, and self-centered 
spouse. A dominating spouse controls the native due the Sun's 
aspect on the ascendant (self). The native also wants to rule and 
66

dominate others. The Sun's aspect on the ascendant shows that the 
native's confidence and ego is derived from other people and their 
spouse. The spouse will be the source of increased self-esteem for 
the native. An exalted Sun can make the spouse wealthy and from 
a respected family. The spouse can be a high ranking government 
official or an executive in a corporation. The personality of the 
native would be shaped through other people and public life. A 
debilitated Sun will always look for a spouse and other types of 
partnerships to develop their sense of self-esteem and confidence. 
One's creative expression will only flourish through the praises of 
others, rather than the native having confidence in their own work. 
This is why the Sun's debilitated aspect on the 1st House of self 
can create low confidence. Their dominating nature is overblown; 
the Sun is trying to acquire power by looking like a king, yet 
internally they are a sheep. This will create a lot of problems in 
marriage and partnerships.
Sun 2nd House Aspect: 
When the Sun is in the 8th House, it aspects the 2nd House. The 
8th House represents transformation, secret affairs, death, rebirth, 
and occult knowledge. In the 8th House, the Sun will illuminate 
67

the dark side of life and the individual will either be a 
revolutionary, or will become the victim of revolution. The aspect 
towards the 2nd House shows the native’s hidden family secrets, 
which changed the course of their life. An exalted  Sun in its own 
sign shows that the ego, confidence, and self respect of the native 
comes through hidden sources, spouse's assets, and dealing with 
secrets of other people. If the Sun is debilitated as it aspects the 
2nd House, then it can show secrecy within the family due to the 
father, or excessive abuse by the father that was hidden in the 
family. The native will also use secrets of the family against them 
to gain wealth and assets. The government can also step in and 
take the assets of the native due to unpaid taxes, through which 
their family life would suffer.
A debilitated Sun, especially near 5-12 degrees Libra, shows a 
very dark personality who stays away from the world, yet is 
cunning enough to operate from underground to dominate others. 
This is also the reason why they can exert overconfidence and 
dominance towards their own family. They lack the true dignity of 
the Sun (King). 
Sun 3rd House Aspect: 
68

The Sun in the 9th House will aspect the 3rd House. The 9th 
House is the house of higher learning, gurus, law, religious text 
and scriptures, long distance pilgrimage, and is the house of luck. 
The Sun in the 9th House glances over the 3rd House of siblings, 
skills, media, arts, and communication. The Sun, being the ego and 
confidence of the native, shows that one's self-esteem and ego are 
derived from higher learning and respecting gurus. However, the 
aspect of the Sun towards the 3rd House can vary depending upon 
its sign placement. An exalted Sun, or Sun in its own sign, shows 
someone who uses higher education and teachings to develop their 
confidence, and share their knowledge and philosophy with others. 
This nature transforms into the Sun's aspect on the 3rd House, 
which shows taking charge of one's own skill set, dominating 
younger siblings, and communicating as the head preacher to one's 
close friends and neighbors. 
A debilitated Sun in the 9th House shows someone who may run 
into the wrong teachers and gurus. The aspect demonstrates that 
such a person will teach his or her siblings the wrong things in life, 
which the native themselves won't realize. They will use incorrect 
information to improve their skill set in the 3rd House, which will 
become a battle to fix.
Sun 4th House Aspect: 
69

The Sun in the 10th House aspects the 4th House. The 10th House 
represents career, status, reputation, government, and father. There 
are blessings in the sky, as the Sun is at its highest point at noon. 
This is why it's called the mid-heaven. The Sun in the 10th House 
is strong in terms of power and prestige. The Sun governs the 
federal and local government, and is a professional, serious, and 
direct planet whose work ethic is uncanny. Its aspect on the 4th 
House brings professionalism and egocentric behavior into the 
home. The aspect upon the 4th House represents the mother, home, 
comfort, and mother's nourishment. The Sun, who is the father, is a 
very dominating figure in the mother's life and affected her 
decision making ability. The comfort of home was great, but it had 
rules one had to follow. 
If the Sun is exalted in the 10th House, the aspect upon the 4th 
House will bring sense of prestige and higher status in the home. 
The native will want his or her family members to act as if they are 
part of the kingdom and cabinet. An exalted Sun, or Sun in its own 
sign, shows that one will protect their home against any kind of 
smearing or insults. They will bring a sense of righteousness 
within home. Comforts will be regal due to the Sun's powerful rays 
70

on the home, but at the same time will be quite strict. A debilitated 
Sun aspect on the 7th House will show that the father will cause   
comforts to be taken away. This will cause a great deal of damage 
in the relationship between the native and their father if the Sun 
happens to be between 5-12 degrees Libra. Due to problems in 
their career, the native uses excessive power and ego to dominate 
their family members. The demanding nature of the native due to a 
debilitated Sun would also impact one's comfort, home, and 
mother. 
Sun 5th House Aspect: 
The Sun in the 11th House aspects the 5th House. The 11th House 
represents network circles, elder siblings, hopes, wishes, and 
increased authority. The Sun can burn and dominate the network 
circle. There is a great interest in politics due to the Sun's aspect on 
the 5th House. The Sun in the 11th House reflects someone who 
71

loves making connections in the political world or with people of 
high status in society. The Sun's aspect on the 5th House shows 
that they will use network circles and friends to gain political 
leadership represented by the 5th House. The native's confidence 
and ego comes from making connections with influential people, 
otherwise they feel weak and unimportant. 
A debilitated Sun makes one follow the wrong crowd and network 
circle in the 11th House, through which the 5th House aspect 
would also be affected. They would give poor advice to their 
children and pursue the wrong academic education that may not be 
useful. Relationships with their children would also suffer due to 
dominance and involvement in the wrong crowd. There would be a 
tremendous lack of confidence when dealing with a huge audience 
or social event. Their frustration will negatively impact their home, 
children, education, and creative expression of the 5th House. The 
native with a debilitated or weak Sun would derive confidence and 
ego by engaging with people of high status, yet those people would 
be charlatans. Through this association, the Sun would disregard 
the value of 5th House with its aspect.
Sun 6th House Aspect: 
72

The Sun in the 12th House aspects the 6th House. In the 12th 
House, the Sun loses his power. Why? Because the 12th House is 
the house of losses, and the Sun is king. This means the Sun loses 
his throne or is ousted from the kingdom in the 12th House. 
Knowing the 12th House represents losses, moksha, spirituality, 
foreign lands, hospitals, and jails, we can determine how the Sun 
will act. The Sun is our personality, our identity, and our virtue. 
The Sun in the 12th House shows a loss of identity. One finds their 
ego and confidence in foreign places or in isolation. This can be 
the case for a foreign government diplomat. The Sun's aspect on 
the 6th House shows that one will deal with enemies, disease, and 
obstacles while in foreign lands or places of isolation. If the Sun is 
exalted, or in a good position in its own sign, it can show one who 
manages to deal with obstacles effectively.
The 6th House aspect shows that for one to find their self worth, 
confidence, and balanced ego, they must dive into everyday work. 
They can help social groups overcome obstacles with their 
leadership qualities. They must be a good employee in the private 
or government sector in order to enjoy life in foreign places, or 
places of peace. A debilitated Sun, especially between 5-12 
degrees Libra, can show many problems with the government and 
authority, which can land the native’s father in jail.  If they have a 
weak Sun, they will wander in foreign lands without the ability to 
find their identity and value until age 35. The native may have had 
to move to a foreign place due to conflicts with one's own father, 
as the 6th House aspect depicts that their father might have 
become the enemy. 
73

Moon Aspect through Houses: 
Moon: The Moon's aspect on other planets and houses shows a 
sense of comfort and a welcoming nature. Such an aspect will 
create a kind, emotional, and maternal influence.
Moon Aspect on the 1st House:
74

When the Moon is in the 1st House (Ascendant), it aspects the 7th 
House. The 7th House is the house of marriage, legal partnership, 
other people, trade, and business. The Moon in the 1st House is 
very self aware and emotional. The mother becomes a big part of 
their physical health, and influences their career. These natives are 
very caring, and love giving and receiving comforts in life. The 
Moon's aspect on the 7th House makes them a nurturing spouse. 
They will have a maternal attitude towards their partner. The 7th 
House aspect also shows that one's mother might take part in 
choosing their spouse. The downside to the Moon's aspect on the 
7th House is the native’s longing for emotional attachment and 
stability through their partner. 
Moon 8th House Aspect: 
75

The Moon in the 2nd House aspects the 8th House. The 2nd House 
represents family, wealth, assets, food, and speech. The Moon is 
emotionally attached to one's family. The native would find   
emotional stability through family support. Wealth is connected to 
the mother. She will be the source of money, knowledge, and food. 
The Moon's aspect on the 8th House of occult, secret affairs, 
surgeries, major fluctuations, death, and transformations shows 
that one will be emotionally attached to learning about the secrets 
of others. They may be interested in occult science and nurturing 
relatives. They are emotionally attracted to secrets of other 
families, which can make them prone to gossip. The 2nd House 
Moon can be like an ocean wave; where things rise and fall due to 
waning and waxing phases. Similarly, wealth can fluctuate for the 
native, causing them to look at marriage, family life, and relatives 
as a source of income. This also allows the teachings of our family 
to be shared with the family of our spouse.
The Moon feels a sense of comfort when it tries to learn about   
things that are hidden underground.
Moon 9th House Aspect: 
76

The Moon in the 3rd House aspects the 9th House. This is a place 
of discomfort for the Moon. It is the Lord of the 4th House of 
comfort, and it goes to the 12th from the 4th, which is about losing 
comfort and focusing all of your efforts toward a goal. In the 3rd 
House, the Moon (mind), is geared towards the skills of art, 
painting, communication, and sales. The mind is always into 
writing and working with one’s hands. They have an emotional 
attachment towards artistic pursuits which brings peace. The 
Moon's 7th aspect is on the 9th House. The 9th House is of higher 
learning, philosophy, teachers, universities, gurus, religious rituals, 
and pilgrimage. Through one's art and ability to communicate, one 
has the emotional need to attach higher wisdom to their work. It 
doesn't matter if they are writers, actors, anchors, journalists, or 
sculptors; they must have some religious or philosophical meaning 
behind what they do. In another words, you can say whatever the 
Moon learns in the 3rd House, it wants to connect to the 9th House 
through those things. One uses their creativity to attain wisdom. 
Through the teachings of their mother, they will be driven towards 
a higher purpose. 
Moon 10th House Aspect: 
77

The Moon in the 4th House aspects the 10th House. The Moon is 
very comfortable in the 4th House because it is the Moon's home. 
There is a sense of emotional comfort when at home and with their 
mother. The mind is at peace when it's thinking about improving 
the home, comfort, property, and people of their homeland. From 
the 4th House, the Moon aspects the 10th House of career, status, 
and reputation. This shows that one's career will have an emotional 
impact on the native. They will feel a deep sense of nourishment 
towards a career involving taking care of others; like nursing, elder 
care, or massage therapy. The Moon is not just about emotions. 
One will feel that with the comfort and support of their mother and 
homeland, they can achieve any kind of career success. Their 
mother is a great influence on their path. There is a strong 
inclination towards becoming a public servant and going into 
politics. The Moon also represents government on a local level. 
There is a sense of patriotism and emotional attachment to helping 
people of one's homeland.
Moon Aspect on the 11th House: 
78

The Moon is in the 5th House and it aspects the 11th House. The 
Moon in the 5th House shows emotional attachment to children, 
creativity, and academic studies. One feels peace of mind when 
surrounded by children, and learns from them. They have an 
interest in political discussions, performing arts, and gambling. 
Since the 5th House is intelligence, we gain from a previous life. 
The Moon can quickly grasp concepts which can produce a very 
involved student. The Moon aspects the 11th House of network 
circles, large organizations, hopes and dreams, and gains of all 
kinds. The Moon's aspect on the 11th House shows an emotional 
attachment to children, creativity, performing arts, and education. 
They create network circles to support their hopes and wishes. 
There is an emotional need to connect with a large network when 
pursuing creative projects, building schools for children, and 
academic studies. 
Moon Aspect on the 12th House: 
79

The Moon in the 6th House aspects the 12th House. This 
placement shows emotional imbalance with the mother and with 
the mind. The native’s mind is conflicted with society, their 
mother, animals, and their mother's siblings. Effort is required to 
maintain a relationship with their mother. The mind is emotionally 
attached to the needs of small animals, underprivileged people, and 
healing the sick, since the 6th House represents disease. The mind 
is filled with debts of the mother's actions, and their own debt to 
society. There native is nurturing, and wants to heal people. The 
Moon is not fond of small animals if in the sign of Saturn and 
without the aspect of Saturn.  From the 6th House, the Moon 
aspects the 12th House of isolation, peace, spirituality, moksha, 
hospitals, jails, asylums, foreign lands, and astral plains. One has 
an emotional need to escape from obstacles and enemies sitting in 
the 6th House, and go to isolated places to find emotional peace. 
They tend to gravitate towards places of tranquility and peace after 
fighting so many battles with disease and opposition. They may 
live through tremendous hardship, which makes their mind 
inclined towards spirituality.
Moon Aspect on the 1st House: 
 
80

The Moon in the 7th House aspects the 1st House. This brings 
about emotional attachment to one’s spouse, other people, or the   
masses. One finds emotional security and peace of mind when 
serving and loving their partner. They choose a spouse who is 
motherly and nurturing. The native becomes emotionally 
connected with other people, and finds satisfaction in helping the 
masses find peace. The Moon from the 7th House aspects the 1st 
House, which represents self, personality, and health. One's 
personality waxes and wanes depending upon their partner. They 
are easily influenced by their spouse, and their identity and health 
is also dependent upon the nourishment they receive and public 
acceptance. 
Moon Aspect on the 2nd House: 
81

When the Moon is in the 8th House it becomes marana karaka. In 
classic Vedic text, this means it comes to die in the 8th House. 
Many people have great minds and great relationships with their 
mother with the Moon in the 8th House. However, you need to 
observe its depositor and nakshatra Lord placement. The Moon in 
the 8th House shows that the mind is inclined towards things that 
are hidden from the surface and buried underground; like occult, 
mystery, investigation, mining, surgery, and drilling for oil and 
gems. Their emotional need comes from going through many 
sudden


...[PDF truncated for import]