# Extracted from: Astrology Speed of Light.pdf

Astrology @ The Speed of Light 
Author: Kapiel Raaj 
© Copyrighted 2011 
www.AstrologyKRS.com  
All the information in this book should be taken as is, 
and must be researched by the reader before implying the 
rules of astrology in their own lives. There are many 
methods of predicting through astrological charts. I am only 
discussing the methods which I found to be helpful and 
truthful, but my truth should not be taken as the law. 
1

Table of Content 
About Me .......................................................................................4
Western Astrology vs. Vedic Astrology....................................9
Degrees in Astrology..................................................................16
The 12 Zodiac Signs....................................................................37
CHARTS and How to read them: ............................................53
Let’s talk about Aspects of Planets...........................................61
What is a retrograde planet? .................................................75
What is a Conjunction? ..............................................................76
What is DikBala?.........................................................................80
The Nakshatras (27 Lunar Mansions)......................................83
Importance Of Houses ...............................................................92
What are Karaka in Vedic Astrology? ...................................102
What is a Dasha?.......................................................................104
(Planetary time periods) ......................................................104
How to judge a dasha?.........................................................110
What's your Sun sign?..............................................................121
Medical Astrology ....................................................................126
Zodiac Symbols Misconception..............................................132
Planets In Houses .....................................................................134
Yogas in Astrology ...................................................................162
What is a Raj Yoga? ..................................................................171
What is a Dhana yoga? ............................................................175
Divisional Charts in Astrology ...............................................179
How to study Navmasha chart? (D9) ....................................183
How to study Dasamsa chart? (D10) .....................................184
The Others Charts:....................................................................186
Hemming Of Planets................................................................193
Good Planets vs. Bad Planets (FB and FM)...........................197
Remedies In Astrology ............................................................208
2

What is Atmakaraka?...............................................................225
Important thing about Karakas ..............................................229
Astrology & Compatibility......................................................231
Do Gemstones work? ...............................................................237
Signs of Divorce in Astrology.................................................238
No Kids, Abortion or Miscarriage?........................................241
Last life? or final liberation?....................................................243
Signs of car accidents in Astrology? ......................................244
Signs of Debt in a horoscope? .................................................245
Anger Problems? ......................................................................246
Foreign Settlements ..................................................................247
Education in Vedic Astrology.................................................250
How to Find Your Career........................................................254
CAREER BY PLANETS............................................................257
CAREER BY HOUSES..............................................................258
CAREER BY SIGNS..................................................................260
Another secret to finding career:............................................262
Hora Chart for Wealth: Wealth secrets..................................264
NUMEROLOGY Secrets ..........................................................274
NUMEROLOGY NUMBER 1..................................................278
NUMEROLOGY NUMBER 2..................................................279
NUMEROLOGY NUMBER 3..................................................279
NUMEROLOGY NUMBER 4..................................................280
NUMEROLOGY NUMBER 5..................................................281
NUMEROLOGY NUMBER 6..................................................281
NUMEROLOGY NUMBER 7..................................................282
NUMEROLOGY NUMBER 8..................................................283
NUMEROLOGY NUMBER 9..................................................284
3

About Me
Who am I and why I wrote this book? 
In bullet points… 
 Author 
 Actor 
 Filmmaker
 Entertainer 
Even though you hear this in the beginning of every 
book on astrology where an astrologer talks about his or her 
glorious achievements and predictions, I am going to tell 
you the opposite. I am not an astrologer, and I do not have 
any awards. What I do have under my belt is over 10 years 
of hardcore research on the subject of mysticism, astrology 
and numerology. 
4

I was like you at one point, blindly following a system 
that never made sense, but I still followed like a sheep 
following the herd. I tried to make sense out of my weekly 
and yearly Sun sign horoscope on websites, but, at the end, 
none came true. 
I was always around Vedic astrology all throughout my 
life since my uncle in India has been practicing Hindu 
astrology for 35 years now, but I never really cared for it or 
wanted to learn it because it just wasn't my time. 
Then, in 2001, I showed my horoscope to an ‘eastern 
Vedic astrologer,’ as my mother always told me to do so. He 
asked me all the details that I hadn’t been asked before 
regarding an astrology chart. He asked my full DOB, place 
of birth and time of birth. He then proceeded to ask my 
name spelling. This was odd. 
That man revealed to me the things I couldn’t have 
imagined; that, too, a stranger telling me about my past. He 
was looking at weird charts and numbers which didn’t 
make much sense to me back then. He was talking about 
houses, degrees, signs, and I was like, ‘okay…just tell me 
what does my future holds?’ Little did I realize, knowing 
those houses and degrees back then, would have made my 
prediction a whole lot easier for me to understand, which 
also would have made me ask the ‘right’ questions. 
After that meeting, I went into the depths of this 
art/science. I said science because even though many 
Eastern and Greek astrologers still can’t prove this as a 
science, there is one method of astrology that can: Jaimini 
5

Astrology. Jaimini astrology is one of the main branches of 
Jyotish that were forgotten long ago until K.N. Rao in India 
revived this method, which to this day has about 90-95% 
accuracy in perdition. I personally have not worked with 
Jaimini, however I am in the process of learning this method 
in the coming years. 
In Jaimini astrology, signs, not planets have aspect. For 
example, cardinal signs will aspect all the fixed signs except 
the one next to it. Fixed signs aspect all cardinal signs, 
except the one previous to it. And finally, all the mutable 
signs aspect the other mutable signs: Gemini, Virgo, 
Sagittarius and Pisces. 
There are many layers to this methods, not just sign 
aspect but something known as 'Karakas', 'Chara dasha' and 
'Karakansha Lagna'. 
There are five main branches of astrology in India: 
Prashara Hora Shastra
Jaimini Sutra
Bhrigu Nadi Jyotish
KP Astrology 
Nadi Astrology 
Lal Kitab
What this book discusses is mainly the methods of 
Prashara. The one that I found to be complete waste of time 
was Lal Kitab. I can write a whole book on as to why it's a 
waste of time, but I won't. 
6

After knowing all the in-&-out of astrology, I will teach 
you the ABCD’s of astrology, and even help construct short 
sentences from those ABCD. 
This is a secret that not too many blogs, books or people 
will tell you. If you are not spiritually ready and do not do 
proper prayers, then do not look at your own, or your family 
members’ horoscope more than twice a year, but you can 
look at anyone other than your family and friends as much 
as you like. In India, you will see there are lots of Vedic 
astrologers who advise on remedies and miracles, yet they 
are giving their services from a broken down house with 
hardly any money in their pocket. This is not the question of 
why couldn’t they improve themselves first, it’s about, were 
they spiritually ready to look at a horoscope? And were they 
looking at their own horoscope all day long? If they are not 
following the correct rules & regulations, then their lives 
will be full of misery. A real astrology who does 
consultation professionally will stay away from non-
vegetarian food, smoking, drinking and taking any kind of 
drugs; while the astrologer would meditate every  morning 
as in 'sadhna' to increase his or her intuition. 
Another bad habit of mostly all astrologers in India is 
that they tell you the bad stuff first before the good stuff and 
they say it bluntly. They have no understanding of 
psychology or being a psychologist alongside being an 
astrologer. Most will tell you up front: "You have a medium 
life, you will get divorced twice, you will always struggle for 
money, your kids might be mentally retarded and you will 
have four big accidents in the next four years." The biggest 
problem is that they think they are being so smart and slick 
by giving a very fragile person this information. A client 
7

comes to a astrologer because they are going through a hard 
time, whether it's physical or psychological. They want to be 
guided, they want to be healed and they want a friend who 
will say everything will be alright. You will hardly find this 
type of consultation practice with a American born 
astrologer. They know how to tell the bad stuff and they 
know how to guide their client through the coming hard 
time. This is why I wish there was a legislation in India that 
required all Vedic Astrologers to have a degree in 
psychology and understanding of human mindset before 
trying to give 'spiritual' guidance. It's a shame really how 
many get affected by consulting a astrologer, and usually 
they never go back and hate this pure divine science. 
8

Western Astrology vs. Vedic Astrology 
 Greek- 2,000 years old
 Eastern- over 5,500 years old perhaps even 
more, but mainly between 5000-12000 years old.  
I wish I could just leave this chapter to the bullet points 
above, but, I will describe these two historic entities in a 
short chapter. 
Eastern astrology as in Vedic “Hindu” astrology has 
been around in India for past 5.33 thousand years. Some say 
the sages of that time knew way more than we do now 
about the world, astronomy and science. While others say 
those sages back then were visited by beings from other 
worlds who taught them the science of planets and 
predicting through their movement, like the civilization of 
Anunnaki ‘Those who came from heaven’. There are all 
kinds of tales and legends regarding the true origins of this 
subject. But Vedic astrology goes much more in depth than 
just your normal Sun signs, Moon signs and planetary 
positions of the west, which I will teach you in this book. 
The Greek astrology emerged through the roots of Vedic 
astrology, and the reason why we can tell this is because 
Greek astrology is missing about 70% of Vedic astrology 
predictive methods, including 27 other zodiac signs which 
they never acknowledged, along with divisional charts. 
9

Eastern astrology doesn’t consider planets such as 
Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto in your birth chart, as they are 
too far, and take too long to switch zodiac signs in making 
any kind of impact on a single individual. The two gas 
giants are only used to show the influence they will have on 
a whole generation, and, neither are they visible in the sky. 
The sages back 5,000 years ago knew that only the planets 
that are visible in the sky will impact a person individually. 
Those sages were aware of at least three other planets in our 
solar system, but did not consider them for astrological use. 
The third planet may not have been Pluto, it actually might 
have been Nibiru. 
I am not bashing the Greek system, but I just do not see 
the depth in their astrological system. I had my chart looked 
through the Greek system (Western system), and the 
predictions were totally wrong. I didn’t say anything to the 
Greek/western astrologer, and just listened, but realized 
what every Vedic astrologer was talking about. I am using 
the term ‘Greek’ and not Western, because our normal Sun 
sign based astrology was originated from Greece. Not to 
mention, Greek System also got the degrees of the planets 
wrong. They went 23 degrees ahead of the Eastern system. 
Degrees are points in the sky that determines the length 
of each Zodiac sign and the location of the planets in those 
signs. 
The reason why two systems have different degrees is 
because the old Vedic sages determined the position of the 
planets from the true rotation of the earth in 24 hour time 
period, while the Romans determined the degrees of the 
10

planet from the spring equinox point when Sun enters the 
first degree of the first zodiac sign Aries. Equinox is known 
as the point on the North and South Pole where the earth 
wobbles a bit, and shows the planets moving faster from 
certain point from earth. 
Mayan, Egyptian and Hindu mapping of the sky are 
99.999% same, and taken seriously even by the scientific 
community around the world.  
Remember, George Washington waited for the Moon to 
enter into the sign of Virgo the night he was going to lay the 
first brick of the White House foundation. This fact will 
never be denied even by the highest scholars of our time. 
The entire structure of Washington D.C. has been energized 
with Black Magic rituals to keep its people, and perhaps the 
world under control by its gigantic monuments. Those 
structures are believed to be emitting a wave of energy or 
radiation which keeps the mind of most people under 
control of their agenda. This was the same reason why 
Pyramids were built, to energize the minds of its people, 
whether it was the Anunnaki or Egyptians who built them.  
This practice of magic through structural monuments was 
meant for the good by our forefathers of United States, but 
later, as the Knights of Malta gained more control on this 
side of the hemisphere, things began to change for the worst. 
The entire structures in Washington D.C. are based on 
astrological symbols. 
Most people in today’s world think that Egyptian 
pyramids were built 5,000 years ago, including King Khufu’s 
face with a body of a lion. This information is highly wrong 
11

and demoted by the so called intellects of the PhD board; 
because in order to get your degree in archeology in 
Egyptian history you have to follow the politically correct 
agendas, otherwise say goodbye to your degree. They will 
only accept the things they have been taught by the 
establishment. 
The structures in Egypt are not 5,000 years old as 
suggested in high school books. They are over 12-25 
thousand years old, maybe even more. The reason why they 
are so old because everything in Egyptian culture was 
astrologically based. It was known as Astro-theology to 
them. This is why, when you study the reason behind the 
building of King Kufu’s face, it will not make sense as to 
why he was put on a body of a lion? 5,000 years ago, we 
were in the age of Scorpio, and there was no reason to build 
the structure of King Khufu statue with a body of a lion in 
the age of Scorpio; this is because, it was build during the 
age of Leo, when the constellation of Leo was rising from the 
Eastern Horizon at Khufu’s line-of-sight. The age of Leo was 
last present on this planet from 12,000-25,000 B.C. But there 
are also theories circulating that it's not the body of a lion at 
all, but a body of a dog. 
These are the details and truth you will not learn from 
any kind of school or astrology book as most of the time 
they are subjected to scrutiny and rebuttal. Society only 
wants to you follow what the government has laid out and 
that is it, while the government holds 80% of the truth about 
our planet under cover. 
Let's go into something even more controversial: 
Christianity. 
12

I am not an agnostic, racist or atheist. I am simply 
awaken, and this why I am writing this passage. 
Through my intensive research, the entire religion of 
Christianity is based upon Astro-theology. Jesus Christ, in 
the bible is the modification of Egyptian Sun God Amun Ra; 
for this is why all Christians say “Amen” at the end of their 
prayers. Jesus is the same way. He is the representation of 
the Sun; this is why he is called the son of God. The word 
sun and son was born from the same ideology. Jesus is the 
representation of the planet Sun, and his 12 disciples are the 
12 zodiac signs. There are a lot more details in my book 
Kyirux II: The Hidden History. My point in this book was to 
tell you that everything from religion to powerful 
government is based upon the planets and stars. Everything 
is astrologically based, but, it is considered a pseudoscience 
by the general government intellect and religion figures 
because they do not want you to know the real and hidden 
secrets to gain wealth and fame. 
Saturn, according to most, including the true Vedic 
historians, was the main significator of wealth and status, as 
it originally controls the 10th and 11th house in the Zodiac 
and controls the sign of Capricorn and Aquarius which are 
the 10th and 11th zodiac signs. In Hindu culture, Saturn has 
been bread to people as the most demonic planet that gives 
nothing but sorrow and trouble to people. I wonder why 
they say this? Why do some people want to hide the truth 
about this well wisher of all beings? Why do they all 
promote Venus & Jupiter instead of Saturn as the giver of 
wealth? 
13

Venus only brings love in the true reality of planetary 
energy while Jupiter brings wisdom; it is Saturn and its 
energy that brings all that you need and more in life; for this 
is why Blue Sapphire is considered the most dangerous 
stone in astrology, as it can either kill you, or take you to 
new heights, but the fact-of-the-matter is, it only benefits 
most of the time, but out of fear people never wear it. It is 
supposed to be worn on the neck, or in the middle finger of 
either hand. Blue Sapphire captures the invisible rays of the 
planet Saturn and transmits it into our nerves as the light 
hits our skin from an open back ring or pendant. But 
remember, Blue Sapphire and its relationship to Saturn was 
never present in Prashara hora shastra. This correlation was 
invented in Egypt. 
I wonder, if every thought in our brain was also planted 
by someone, like movie 'The Matrix.' We think that we as 
humans are capable of either destroying or sustaining a 
balance on this earth, but, what if our so called brain inside 
our skull is manufacturing those thoughts, while in the 
conscious reality there is a totally different scenario about 
science, mathematics, DNA, genetics and life outside our 
own planet. These are the thoughts that began to rattle 
within you after you do chakra meditation, which are 
energy points in your body that control everything about 
you and your DNA. DNA can be separated and 
manipulated by sound vibration, which they do now in labs. 
This is why mantras chanting changes people, and takes 
them to a higher level of consciousness. 
When we look at ourselves in the mirror in the morning 
we think of ourselves as our house, car, money, academic 
arrogance, and ego, but no one stops to think about the fact 
14

that, "I am a consciousness in a genetic, bio mechanical suit, 
experiencing this dimension and game called life."
The planets, and their radial vibrations, too, are 
connected to our chakra energies. By changing your chakra's 
energy and you can change your luck; a simple solution to a 
humanly made complex system of understanding. 
If our DNA can be altered by sound and visual vibration, 
don’t you think the government with trillions and trillions of 
dollars might not experiment with such technology to keep 
their citizens under control through radial and sound 
vibration known as music, TV and radio? 
They clog your brain with reality shows, cameramen 
chasing celebrities, sex, drugs, and treating women like sex 
objects in music videos! While all along the educational 
system keeps plummeting to its death in United States, and 
the plague is soon to follow across the sea. An ex-gang 
member turn rapper can make 100,000 dollars a week by 
selling his music about how many women he slept with in a 
day. On the other hand, the governments can't find enough 
money to put quality teachers and advance class rooms in 
most major cities around the world.  All of this chaos has a 
simple solution, (astrology) which itself is a branch of 
(knowing thyself) and how do you know thyself? It is 
through Chakra meditation and Kundalini awakening. 
Okay, enough about history lecture, let’s get back to the 
basics in the next chapter about astrology and its depth. 
15

Degrees in Astrology 
 Greek- off by 23 degrees, (scientifically proven) 
 Eastern- behind 23 (true) degrees
I.e. 
Aries- (Greek) March 23rd to April 21st 
Aries (Eastern) April 15th to May 15th 
According to true astrology, if you’re born on the 10th of 
November you’re not a Scorpio; you’re a Libra with Sun in 
26 degrees, not Sun in 22 degrees Scorpio. The months 
themselves have their own personality, so yes, if you’re a 
November born, you’ll have certain qualities of November, 
but your true zodiac sign will be Libra, and in the next 2500 
years, you’re sign will be Virgo on the same date. That’s the 
beauty of eastern astrology, it moves with the real galactic 
plain movement. From 15th to 15th of any month you’re in 
one Sun sign. If you’re born between 1st and 14th of any 
month, just read one sign before for your own horoscope, 
and you’ll know the true picture of your soul and 
personality. 
But how are the degrees calculated in astrology? 
Well, let me show you a screen. If you log on to my 
youtube channel KRSchannel, there, I have made a video 
titled Western Astrology vs. Vedic Astrology. The video will 
16

help you understand why degrees are different in two 
systems. 
Basically Earth has two equators, one is called a celestial 
equator and the other is called Ecliptic equator. Celestial 
equator is the position of the sky as we see from the ground 
through our eyes, while the celestial equator is tilted 23 
degrees since the entire solar system is titled 23 degrees, so 
stars do not just go in a straight circle, the circle is titled 23 
degrees from the actual equator. This is what Maha Rishi 
Prashara knew back five to twelve thousands years ago. 
When someone is born during night time, the Sun is 
positioned in Imum Coeli, which is simply the lowest point 
for the Sun from the celestial equator. When Sun is on top of 
the sky during noon time, it is in the Medium Coeli position, 
because like the Ecliptic equator, the Sun goes in a 23 degree 
titled circle from the equator. This is why when Sun rises 
from the east or simply the eastern side of the sky from 
anywhere in the world is always known as the Ascendant or 
Rising sign in astrology. This is for both Western & Eastern 
system. 
Remember, the first house in astrology is always the sign 
rising in the east. The terms: Ascendant, rising and the 1st 
house of a birth chart is referring to the same thing: the 
eastern side of the sky. The west direction where the Sun 
sets is called Descendant, or 7th house, as in 7th house of 
astrology. North direction is known as the 4th house and 
south direction is called the 10th house in astrology. No 
matter what time you’re born, whatever sign was rising 
from the eastern side of the sky becomes your ascendant or 
your rising sign. 
17

Below is the chart of all the planets and the zodiac signs 
they rule in ascending order, with the element they 
represent as in (Water, Fire, Air, Earth) starting with the first 
sign. 
ARIES-FIRE- MARS (April 15th- May 14th) 
TAURUS-EARTH-VENUS (May 15th- June 14th)
GEMINI--AIR-MERCURY (June15th- July 14th)
CANCER-WATER- MOON (July 15th- August 14th)
LEO-FIRE-SUN (August 15th- Sept 14th)
VIRGO-EARTH-MERCURY (Sep 15th- October 14th)
LIBRA- AIR-VENUS (October 15th- Nov 14th)
SCORPIO-WATER-MARS (Nov15th- Dec 14th)
SAGITTARIUS-FIRE- JUPITER (Dec 15th- Jan 15th)
CAPRICORN- EARTH-SATURN (Jan 15th- Feb 14th)
AQUARIUS- AIR-SATURN (Feb15th- Mar 14th)
PISCES-WATER- JUPITER (Mar 15th- Apr 14th)  
Above dates may differ due to leap year cycle. 
1. RAHU- RULES NO SIGN - (Eastern astrology 
shadow planet that does not rule any signs, but 
transforms to the planet of whose signs it’s sitting in. 
However, some ancient text of Hindu astrology say 
that Rahu co-rules the sign of Aquarius along with 
Saturn. 
Belo is an example of what I meant by Rahu 
transforming himself into other planet. 
I.e. If Rahu is in LEO, it takes the shape and 
characteristics of the Sun, since Sun rules Leo. But, to go 
even further more in detail, if Rahu is in the sign of LEO 
18

and in the same house of Leo he’s sitting with Venus that 
is also in Leo, then Rahu is also transforming itself in to 
Venus as well. Whomever Rahu sits with in close 
conjunction and the sign it occupies in any given house, 
it becomes that planet. 
2. NO SIGN- KETU- Same as RAHU (But, do not 
think Rahu and Ketu have same personality, they 
don’t) Also, some ancient text says Ketu co-rules the 
sign of Scorpio along with Mars. 
RAHU= Illusion, worldly desire, the future. Wherever it 
sits, (the house), it wants to attain the things related to that 
house. Rahu is mass communication, amplification of things, 
material desires, computers, magic, extravagant. 
 
KETU= Liberation, wanting to get away from things that 
it has already experienced in previous lives, hates being 
materialistic, and is more mature than Rahu. Rahu only has 
a head, and no body, and Ketu has a body but no head, this 
is why some astrologer considers Ketu as stupid, because he 
doesn’t have a brain, but it has its own maturity.  
Rahu and Ketu subject will be talked about later in this 
book. 
Greek does not include the south node of the Moon 
(Ketu) but they do include the north node (Rahu)
Eastern does not include Uranus and Neptune because 
they do not affect a single human being, but the entire 
generation as a whole, because they are too far from earth 
and they do not change signs for more than 10-20 years. 
19

Any planet outside the boundaries of Saturn is not 
capable of giving human's their karmic cycle. This is why 
Saturn is considered the boundary setter, who restricts 
things. Only the planets within his realm are capable of 
giving us a karmic cycle. Any planet outside of Saturn's 
boundary like Uranus and Neptune do not give any good or 
bad results, they simply give personality to the house and 
planet they come in contact with. There is no debilitated and 
exalted sign of Neptune or Uranus, they simply throw a 
certain qualitative upon a person. 
i.e. 
Neptune= unconditional love. When Neptune sits in any 
house it gives us unconditional love towards the things 
related to that house; unless of course it's combust by Sun. 
If Neptune is in the 5th house, it shows unconditional 
love for children, performing arts, cinema, acting and 
knowledge. 
If Neptune is in conjunction with Venus, it shows 
unconditional love towards relationship you form with your 
house. A deep profound sense of love when you fall for 
someone. 
But the good or bad result of that house and conjunction 
of that house will only be seen by the house depositor, 
planet positioned, aspect or conjunction by the planets that 
are within the realm of Saturn, which are: Sun, Moon, 
Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Rahu & Ketu. 
20

Ascendant degrees: 
Another thing to remember is the degree of your rising 
sign. When you get your horoscope, you will get a small 
table showing the degrees of each planet in your horoscope. 
What most people fail to see is their degree of ascendant or 
rising sign. Even houses have degrees. Your 1st house aka 
ascendant aka rising sing can be between 0 to 29:59:59 
degrees, and if there is any planet sitting between 3 degrees 
of your ascendant degrees then that planet will have the 
greatest impact in your life. This is known as 'The source 
point'. Planet sitting close to the degrees of your ascendant 
will be the major source of your happiness and sorrow, 
especially during their time period known as 'Mahadasha', 
which you will learn in this book. 
i.e. 
If your rising sign is at 15 degrees Libra, then any planet 
in any house around 13-17 degrees will have the most 
impact in your life. If they are negative planets, they will be 
greatly negative, if they are positive planets, then they will 
give the most positive impact. 
Planets go through 5 stages of life in a single zodiac sign. 
These five stages occur in every single zodiac sign for a 
planet. 
The five stages are known as: 
1 Infant or baby 
2    Young or teenager
21

3. Adult 
4. Mature 
5. Old 
These stages occur at a particular degree in zodiac sign. 
Each zodiac sign is 30 degrees, that’s why 30 X 12 is 360. 30 
degrees multiplied by 12 zodiac signs which create the full 
360 degree of the sky. The entire space around earth, half of 
which you can't see is the zodiac sign belt.  
When a planet first enters a zodiac sign at 00:00:01 to 
00:59:00 it is in its infant stages, it’s a baby which is always 
sleeping and has no idea of what is happening in the world. 
Planet in these degrees are considered weak, but after the 
age of 32 for a human being they are finally awake and 
mature, this is why some people find success early on in life 
and some people start late in their life. 
Second stage which is Young or teenager stage occurs 
between 1 and 5 degrees. When planet is in these degrees 
they are considered young, full of energy, yet undisciplined. 
Only Moon and Mercury do well in these degrees because 
Mercury is a prince, he likes to run around, hit on women, 
play games, but when mom or dad calls him to come home 
and do his homework, he does his homework. Moon does 
well in these degrees because Moon is emotions and our 
reaction to the ambience around us. When a teenager breaks 
up with his or her girlfriend or boyfriend, they get over 
them quite quickly, most of the time, but if you were to 
break up with someone in your mature or older stages then 
the impact of that breakup is devastating, this is why when 
Moon is in these degrees, it keeps you away from 
22

depression, most of the time, unless it is getting a bad 
aspect. 
In Adult stage, which happens between 6 and 17 degrees 
of a zodiac sign, the planet is an adult or young adult, ready 
to take on the tasks of the real world, and think logically, but 
they still do have fun. In this stage of the degrees Venus and 
Mars do well, because Venus would rather experience a 
solid, committed relationship than a teenage fling. Mars 
does well here because Mars is a solider, a fighter, but Mars 
is not a thug, and it won’t hit you just for the heck of it as 
most teenagers do. Mars will only hit you if you deserved to 
be hit. 
In Mature stages of a degree which occurs from 18-25 
degrees, a planet would act as a leader, the president or CEO 
of a company. They are all about work, and taking things 
seriously in life, making the right decision and not playing 
around with games. This is where planets like Sun, Saturn 
and Jupiter do well, because they are mature planets who 
always teach us something and they love working hard. 
The old stage, which occurs between 26-29.9 degrees, is 
the grandpa stage, and no planets want to be in this position 
because as an old person you don’t have the strength and 
power as you once did in your youth. An old person can 
barely walk on their two feet, let alone take on the world. 
But, these are still powerful planets, especially if your 
ascendant degrees are very late, then any planet in those late 
degrees will have a great impact on the person's life. Saturn 
especially does well when in old stages. Planets here just 
tend to be more careful and cautious about what they do, 
23

however they are easily capable of working hard when they 
make a decision. 
In this late stage of a zodiac sign you want to have Rahu 
and Ketu here, or you want to have Rahu and Ketu in the 
baby stages, because since Rahu and Ketu usually create 
negative karmic effect on our life, it is better to have them 
very old without power or very young as in sleeping stages 
in any zodiac sign. But remember, Rahu and Ketu always go 
backwards, so they enter a zodiac sign at 29.9 degrees, and 
they leave that zodiac sign at 00:00:01 degrees. These two 
shadow planets are always retrograding. Rahu and Ketu 
also do give very good effect, however, because of their 
malefic nature, it’s better to not have them giving any 
results. 
Since we talked about the zodiac signs we did not talk 
about the planets, and their own personality. 
Below are the planets and their personality in astrology. I 
will not include Uranus, Neptune or Pluto, because 
according to my book, they are not affecting your immediate 
life. 
The planets below also represents family members in 
your life; this way if your Sun is damaged in your house, or 
its in sad position, your relationship with your father may 
not be so sweet since Sun represents the father figure in 
one's life. 
 SUN - The father, (The King), power, authority, your 
soul, and the way you come out to people,  and how bright 
your light shines depends upon the condition of your Sun. 
24

Sun control the vital energy within you which drives you 
success, self expression, indicator of career, confidence and 
leadership skills. Sun is also the (Karaka) of profession or 
work. 
(Karaka simply means significator). 
MOON - Mother, (Queen), emotions, how your react to 
emotions, home life, your peace of mind, the way you think, 
but do not mistake this for your intelligence, which is ruled 
by Mercury. We all have emotions, but our intelligence is at 
a different level. Moon is your mind, sensitivity, emotions, 
imagination, comfort, fertility, your emotional response to 
the world. 
MERCURY- Now we come to your intelligence: 
Mercury. It represents communication, media, writing 
ability, speaking ability, ability to do business, and how 
serious of a person you are, or are you a total comedian. It 
also represents Prince. Prince. No one takes prince seriously, 
but he still has an authority because after all, he’s son of the 
King. Mercury is shows our ability to memorize things, 
working with hands, writing and journalism. 
VENUS - it represents your wife, girlfriend, (Princess) 
Venus is a princess, not a queen, and they are two different 
personalities. Queen is mature, and ready to handle the 
kingdom’s issues type of gal, but princess just wants to play 
like the prince, and desire all the material things. Venus also 
represents females in your life that you come across; 
pleasure from luxury, sexual desire. Venus shows the type 
of females you will attract in your life. Venus is also comfort, 
pleasure, sexual pleasure, how well one dresses, beauty, art, 
25

lust, romance, happiness, wife in a man's chart, strong 
indicator of marriage for both men & women. 
MARS - represents your friends, (Soldier), your fighting 
ability, bother, and brotherly figures in life, and most 
importantly your will power or lack thereof. Mars is your 
will power and your ability to fight through tasks and 
hurtles you run into in your life. Mars is our physical 
vitality, interest in sports, competition, martial arts, anger, 
conflicts, tool, military, weapon making, our overall energy, 
cuts, burns, bruises and blood.  
JUPITER - Jupiter is wisdom, your teacher, (King’s 
minister), and the type of teachers you run into in your life, 
expansion of thoughts, and it shows expansion of certain 
things in your life which depends upon the sign and house it 
controls. They say Jupiter controls wealth; no, it does not, 
Jupiter controls the wealth of wisdom and opportunity, and 
how much wealth you make out of that opportunity. The 
wealth factor depends upon your Saturn, yes Saturn. You 
may think Saturn is only responsible for misery in your life, 
but remember, it controls the 10th and 11th sign in the Zodiac, 
and 10th house and 11th house control your career, and 
incoming gains. Saturn is the one holding your book on 
karma. Good karma equals huge wealth, bad karma equals 
less wealth or no wealth. 
SATURN - (General of the Army) represents your uncle, 
the type of boss you’ll have, your good and bad deeds in this 
life or the past, how hard will you work, your true career 
and wealth, your level of maturity and aspects of your life 
that might be restricted for at least 50% of the time. I say this 
because even though Saturn limits your ability of certain 
26

aspects of your life depending upon the sign and house its 
ruling, it usually frees you up from its aftermath after the 
age of 35 per eastern astrology. Saturn is limitation, 
restriction, discipline, structure, order, law, obstacles, delay, 
focus and separation. 
I.e. 
Saturn in the 7th house, or the zodiac sign that Saturn 
rules are in the 7th house, and, if Saturn (aspects) the 7th 
house (we’ll talk about ASPECTS later in the book), this will 
give you a late or delayed marriage or business partnership, 
but it WILL give you a marriage. It just delays it, and 
knowing this fact, it will be better if you got married after 
the age of 32. If you have this placement in your chart and 
you get married before that age, then divorce will be your 
next calling. This is why it’s so important to know your true 
astrology and your true astrological chart, as it will help you 
skip the rocks on your pathway. Do all marriages with 
Saturn's placement in 7th house or aspect on 7th house get 
delayed? No, but most of the time it does. 
RAHU- North node of the Moon, which only has a head 
and no body; because the body is the south node KETU. 
These two planets are a major part of the Vedic Astrological 
system. Rahu loves the worldly riches, and possession of all 
the material things. Rahu wants to have those things you see 
on MTV cribs and it wants your next generation Iphone. It 
wants that Benz and hates driving its current car. Rahu is 
where our ambitions are, it’s what we constantly think 
about. Next time, look at the house and sign that your Rahu 
(north node) is sitting in, and understand the detail of that 
sign and the planet that rules that sign, and see if you have 
27

the same desires as that sign talks about. Most likely, you 
will agree. 
KETU- He is the rest of the body without the head, some 
say he’s stupid because he doesn’t have a head with brain, 
some say he’s just a loner, because he loves being alone and 
away from all the worldly things; in contrary, just the 
opposite of Rahu. Depending upon the house Ketu is in, it 
will make you either less needy of what that house 
represents, or will give you less desires to get the things 
related to that house. Ketu feels like he’s already 
experienced the things of the house he sits in. It feels that it 
has mastery over the things related to the house its placed 
in. Ketu is the part which you shouldn’t really care about too 
much as it will manifest itself without you even thinking 
about it. Ketu is isolation, enlightenment, spirituality, occult, 
silence, psychic intuition, discomfort, mysticism.  
I.e. A
If you have Ketu in your 7th house, regardless of the sign 
it’s in, then it will either make you hate the idea of marriage, 
or you’ll experience so many disappointments in marriage 
that you’ll just runway from the world of legal bondage. 
This situation can nullify itself if Ketu is sitting with Jupiter, 
Saturn or Venus, as these planets promote union and 
marriage, this however won’t give you the best marriage in 
the world but it’ll give you marriages which will last, like 
two old married couple arguing. Wherever you have Ketu, 
you naturally will not care of those things. However, aspects 
from other planets changes the situation of Ketu. Saturn and 
Ketu in 7th house can actually promote long lasting 
28

marriage, which may be cold and dry, but it will sustain 
itself. 
I.e. B
Ketu in the 5th house of children, and fun, will make you 
feel like children are a huge responsibility in life, or you just 
won’t be into babies as much. This does not mean you won’t 
have them, yeah, you may have an abortion because you 
didn’t want to have a baby, because Ketu does not make you 
feel bad about the things you can’t have, because you won’t 
want them in the first place. Yet Ketu usually produces a 
boy. 
RAHU and KETU are always opposite of one-&-other. 
They are always 7 houses apart, which make them opposite 
to each other. They move in sync motion, the exact same 
degrees. They will never meet, or ever go less or more than 7 
houses apart; except some divisional charts, which I will 
discuss later in the book. 
There are 12 houses in astrology, and this applies to both 
Greek and Eastern astrology. 
1. HOUSE 1 – (Ascendant) (Most important per 
Eastern). It rules body and personality. Most 
astrologers will say it rules the majority of a person’s 
life and its luck as well, but it’s not true. The luck, 
career and wealth factor is ruled by other houses. 
However, it's the foundation of your life, so a weak 
foundation will make other planets a little wobbly 
29

sitting in a house. But, may people have bad 
ascendants, but due to other planetary positions they 
come out quite well. 
2. HOUSE 2 – family, fixed assets, speech, family 
business, possessions of things, throat, this also 
includes married life (some only count 7th house as a 
marriage house, but 2nd and 4th is also important as 
they rule the home life in eastern astrology) This 
house is also death inflicting house (Marka House) 
Marka simply means houses that mentally &  
physically kill you, as 2nd represents the family, it will 
make you work, think, argue, fight and disagree with 
people in your family if it is ill in your chart. The 
negative aspect of such house can drain any person to 
their death. 
3. HOUSE 3 – Short distance travel, like state to 
state, or from one town to another like a truck driver. 
The third house also represents siblings and 
relationship with them, media, networking skills, 
writing and speaking ability. This house also 
promotes courage. It's the house of will power and 
your efforts. Where your efforts will be and how 
much effort will you put in your work. This is also 
the house of longevity since it's 8th from the 8th 
house. 
4. HOUSE 4 – home, family life, ownership of 
home, and vehicles, peace of mind, your childhood, 
teachings of your mother, grade school and any kind 
of conveniences. Having an air conditioner is also 
30

considered a 4th house object since it represents 
convenience. 
5. HOUSE 5 – This house represents children, 
fun, creativity, past life karma, education, speculative 
business, entertainment, ancient knowledge, media, 
writing and stock market. I say media and writing 
because 5th house is 3rd from the 3rd house, which 
becomes the 2nd choice for looking at an individual's 
creativity. 
6. HOUSE 6 – dealing with enemies, diseases of 
the body, everyday work life and relationship with 
co-workers. This is the house of debt, obstacles, 
warzone, fighting, litigation and divorce. 
7. HOUSE 7 – Marriage, legal partnership (also 
includes business partnership), rules fame of a person 
as its opposite of the 1st house which is self and 7th 
house is other people, house of masses, and it also 
involves sex, and sexual relationship with the legal 
partner. (In Greek they say 5th and 8th house rules sex, 
but that’s not correct, 5th house rules romance, and 8th 
house, well, we’ll get to that next.) This is also a death 
inflicting house (Marka House)
Because dealing with marriage and its issues 
everyday can kill anyone.
8. HOUSE 8 – This house rules death and rebirth 
of a person or how one rises after a great fall in their 
life. This house also shows money through in-laws 
and friends as in loans you might get from them. 
Financial loans for home, business is also shown from 
31

this house. Deep rooted issues of one's life, and one's  
interest or lack thereof in mystical world such as 
astrology, magic, tantric practices , ghosts are shown 
form this house. 8th house also represents life span of 
a person. This is simply the house of occult. Secret 
affairs are also seen from this. Government taxes, 
spies and business related to secret government 
dealings are seen from the 8th house.  
Death is not something to fear, you will die, you can’t 
live forever, but if your lifespan is short, (although it’s 
a blessing in my terms) you can still extend it per 
Vedic astrology remedies.) We will talk about 
remedies later in the book. 8th house is a major 
(Marka House) This is truly a death inflicting house, 
as 8th house deal with things that are buried deep 
beneath the earth, and when certain planets align in 
2nd, 7th and 8th house; it usually causes death for a 
person. 
9. HOUSE 9 – This house shows interest in 
religion, long distance travel and higher philosophical 
education. This house rule advance education like 
PhD or masters, but also the education that brings 
wisdom in one's life, whether negative or positive, 
which depends on the planet and signs that rules this 
house. This house also represents the law field as 9th 
house is about doing the right things or being 
punished for it. It's the house of your gurus as in 
teachers and teachings of your father. 
32

10. HOUSE 10 – This house shows your image in 
the outer world, like place of work and community, 
as it’s opposite to the 4th house which is home, your 
private life. It rules career too, but only holds 30% of 
the truth about your career. In Greek astrology they 
give a major emphasis on the 10th house and its lord 
or the planet sitting in 10th house to determine your 
career, but this is not true, why you ask? Because 
Greek only relies on 1 chart, your basic birth chart, 
and, sometimes eastern astrologer, too, relies on the 
same chart. But, there is a bigger depth to this house. 
In Eastern astrology there are many (Divisional) 
charts which show a detailed analysis of a person’s 
life, which can be career, marriage, children, health, 
travel etc… The divisional chart that rules the career 
is called (D-10 chart) or Dashamsa chart in Eastern 
astrology. (We’ll talk about it later) But career is also 
seen from 2nd, 6th and 7th house, too. 7th house is 
10th from the 10th house, which becomes the career 
of your career house. 
11. HOUSE 11 – This house shows gains of all 
kinds, hopes, wishes, power to achieve your desired 
goal, and your source of income. The source of 
income is not your 10th house, but your 11th house. 
How will you make your money, or how will you get 
your (Big) money. Your 10th house just shows career, , 
rise & fall in career and what field you’ll go into after 
looking at all the divisional charts, but 11th house 
shows the big gains you’ll receive in your life. Very 
important house in terms of wealth.  
33

12. HOUSE 12 –  House of mystery, your hidden 
talent, your hidden magic, foreign country settlement, 
losses but, not necessarily loss of money, it could be 
loss of enemies or health, as in, you’ll lose enemies, 
which stands for: you may not have much enemies, or 
you may not have too many disease in your 
possession. If you look at this house carefully, 12th 
house which is known as the house of losses or 
expenditure, can also work in your advantage as well. 
We’ll talk about this later. But, 12th house is a major 
player in careers of fictional writers, as 12th house 
takes you into a different dream land, and dimension 
which is required for a fantasy writer. 
Now that you know the 12 houses in basic forms, let’s 
talk about the most important house in astrology, your 1st 
house, your (ASCENDANT).  
Rising sign, also known as Ascendant, holds the first 
sign rising on the eastern horizon. Ascendant according 
to eastern astrology is the MOST important house in 
astrology. It is the house that sets your wheel of destiny 
in place, but, do not think your destiny is set, no, destiny 
changes as the planet never sit still, but always move. 
The moment when you’re born, the zodiac sign rising on 
the eastern horizon becomes the ascendant. This is why 
do not just go on your Sun Signs, but go on your time of 
birth, and place of birth, and check what sign was rising 
on the ascendant. Now-a-days, any astrology software 
will show you your ascendant sign, as most of the time 
it’s marked as (Asc) on a Vedic chart. 
34

Whatever Zodiac sign is rising as your ascendant, it 
will set the pace of your career, marriage, children and 
wealth. Now, how much or how little wealth, bad or 
good career, marriage or no marriage, divorce or no 
divorce, children or no children, all these aspects of life 
are then set by the planets that are controlling each 
house, and the house that planets are occupying. But the 
type of things & people you’ll run into in your life will be 
shown by houses controlling your chart. The ascendant 
permanently sets the houses in your horoscope. 
I.e. 
Let's say you’re born on August 6th 1977, at 10:20 am 
in New Delhi, India; the software will calculate your 
chart, and will show your “Ascendant” aka your rising 
sign as Virgo, which is ruled by the Mercury. What does 
this means you ask? This means, your first house is ruled 
by the zodiac sign of Virgo, and moving counter 
clockwise, your next house will be ruled by Libra which 
is the 2nd house, and then 3rd house will be ruled by 
Scorpio and so on. The zodiac signs in all astrology are in 
a certain chronological order which are shown below. 
1. Aries 
2. Taurus 
3. Gemini
4. Cancer
5. Leo
6. Virgo
35

7. Libra
8. Scorpio
9. Sagittarius 
10. Capricorn
11. Aquarius
12. Pisces
If someone asks you what sign comes after Leo, you 
should say Virgo. No matter what sign you run into, the 
next sign will always be from the list above. If you think 
about Scorpio, then next sign always will be Sagittarius. 
Why is this important? 
First, knowing your ascendant will tell you what kind 
of things you’ll run into. If you have CANCER 
ascendant, then your directly opposite sign to Cancer is 
Capricorn in the 7th house. What does this mean? Well, 
this will show you what kind of a partner you will get. 
Usually Cancer ascendant people get much older and 
mature partner than their own age; because Saturn rules 
the sign of Capricorn and Saturn is known as the planet 
of antique things or things & people that are mature and 
old. 
36

The 12 Zodiac Signs 
Aries Horoscope
Details on Aries sign.
Element- Fire
Gender- Male
Ruler- Mars
Sector- North
Vedic Astrology- April 15th-May 14th
Tropical- March 22nd-April 21st
Aries is the first sign of the zodiac, which starts from April 
15th to May 14th. You must be thinking I have written this 
information wrong, because Aries is from March 22nd to 
April 21st, right? Well, I am sure you read the chapter before 
this where I told you exactly why the dates are the way they 
are. 
Aries is ruled by the red, angry, fearless planet Mars. This 
zodiac sign has the positive energy of Mars, where Scorpio 
has a darker side of Mars. Aries personality is all about 
taking charge and leading the team to the finish line. They 
have tremendous energy to take on big tasks and finish 
them on time. This is why, most of the time Aries comes out 
emotionless because they do not waste time on thinking and 
talking, which is a second nature of an emotional person. 
37

Aries people like to be very logical and straight forward in 
their thinking. However, one big negative point about Aries 
people is that they do not like to be corrected or be told what 
to do. Even if they are wrong, they would not admit it, 
rather they will do whatever they can do justify it. This is 
why Aries are best when they are their own bosses, or 
higher up in the corporate ladder like a V.P., CEO, District 
Manager, Attorney, Police Chief and athlete. They are 
someone who likes to be in control, and why not, they 
actually do things right when it comes to business and 
making money, but, since they are so consumed with their 
professional life, there home life sometimes suffers. They 
also love competition, especially in sports. 
Taurus Horoscope
Element - Earth
Gender - Female 
Ruler - Venus
Vedic Astrology - May 15 - June 14th
Tropical - April 22nd - May 21st
Taurus is the second sign of the zodiac, which starts from 
May 15- June 14th. 
38

Taurus is ruled by the sensual, beautiful and lovable planet 
Venus. Taurus and Libra are both ruled by Venus, but 
Taurus is a feminine sign while Libra is masculine. Taurus is 
represented by the bull, bull who charges when it seeks an 
opportunity. This is why Taurus rules fixed assets and 
family wealth; Taurus is naturally a representation of the 
2nd house in astrology. Taurus people are more concerned 
with having security in love-&-relationship than feelings. 
There way of relating to a romantic partner is by creating 
wealth and security for future. Taurus people love 
everything luxurious like the Libras, but, Taurus people like 
to only achieve them on their own hard work. Since Taurus 
represents the financial aspect of one's life, they do very well 
as financial planners, stock brokers, asset managers, 
accountant, bank managers or any profession that is dealing 
with currency or calculation of money. However, since 
Venus rules this sign they make great singers, artists and 
poets. 
Gemini Horoscope
Element - Air
Gender - Neutral/male 
Ruler - Mercury
Vedic Astrology - June 15 - July 15th
Tropical - May 21st - June 22nd
39

Gemini is the third sign of the zodiac, which starts from June 
15- July 15th. 
Gemini is ruled by the master of communication, media, 
pleasure, business and ADD: Mercury. Due to the quick 
moving nature of Mercury Gemini people are very quick 
thinkers and this is why their attention is never on just one 
thing, but ten different things. This is why they are known 
as the ADD of the Zodiac, but this is a false rumor. It is not 
their attention span that is the problem; Gemini people 
simply love different things and get bored with the routine 
very quickly. Gemini makes the best entrepreneur, because 
these people are able to handle 10 different businesses at the 
same time and they handle them well. Gemini people are 
usual the ones who can write, direct, edit and act in a film.   
This is why the best career for Gemini people is in media 
because things change in media every day, which keeps 
these quick witty thinkers going. Gemini's make the best of 
writers, actors and singers due to the influence of Mercury. 
In love, too, Gemini people are very emotional, especially 
the Gemini Moon, but, these people need new sparks in 
their relationship every six months or so, this is why you 
have to keep up with them or they will leave.
Cancer Horoscope
Element - Water
Gender - Female
Ruler - Moon
Vedic Astrology - July 15th - August 14th
40

Tropical - June 22nd - July 21st
Cancer is the fourth sign of the zodiac, which starts from 
July 15th-August 14th. 
Cancer is ruled by the emotional, soft natured and motherly 
personality Moon. Moon in Astrology represents emotion, 
feelings, feminine personality, a caretaker, and caregiver, 
someone who thinks about others first before themselves. 
This is why Cancer people are very emotional and soft 
natured, and being the 4th sign of the zodiac they represent 
the 4th house, which is your home, your inner peace, your 
heart and your mother. Cancer people make the best of 
housewives, cooks, writers, emotional actors, interior 
decorators, but also they do very well in the medical field, 
especially being a nurse. A nurse is required to have that 
motherly natured personality, someone who wants to take 
care of others, even a doctor needs to have that personality. 
Cancer people also make the beset hotel managers because 
hotel is about taking care of others. Due to their emotional 
nature Cancer people make dramatic actors or romantic 
writers, because love & romance is everything this water 
sign craves. Cancer people make the best politicians as well 
because they love to observe people and take care of them. 
Being a water sign, they can maneuver themselves through 
people to get their point and agenda across.
41

Leo Horoscope
Element - Fire
Gender - Male
Ruler - Sun
Vedic Astrology - August 15 - September 14th
Tropical - July 23nd - August 22nd
Leo is the fifth sign of the zodiac, which starts from July 
15th-August 14th. 
Leo people are ruled by the hot, bright kingly Sun. Leo 
people are the proudest people of the zodiac. These people 
love to be the center of attention and love being the talk of 
the town. Since Leo is ruled by the Sun, which is the 
brightest thing in the sky and outshines everything else in 
the Universe, Leo people love being a celebrity, or a 
politician, because these people are well known to everyone 
around the world, just like how Sun shines its light on 
everything. Leo is the original controller of the 5th house, 
5th house which controls children, creativity, arts, theater, 
cinema, ancient texts, politics and education. This is why 
most people with influence of Leo in their chart or influence 
of 5th house in their horoscope always run towards the 
media, communication or art industry because it's all about 
creativity with these folks. Leo people however usually are 
not so deep lovers, because they are so busy trying to be out-
42

&-about in the world that their home life suffers. If you 
notice, mostly all the celebrity couples break up at one point 
or another, because both of them are trying to just be in front 
of the limelight. Leo people usually get along with Aquarius, 
Libra and Gemini, because these three sings are all about 
creativity, arts and media.
Virgo Horoscope
Element - Earth
Gender - Female
Ruler - Mercury
Vedic Astrology - September 15 - October 14th
Tropical - August 23rd - September 21st
Virgo is the sixth sign of the zodiac, which starts from 
September 15- October 14th. 
Virgos are hard workers. They are workaholics, and they 
love it. Virgo is ruled by Mercury, but this is more of a 
serious side of Mercury, unlike Gemini. Virgo people are 
focused on one thing and they want to do it well. Virgos are 
perfectionists. They want to do their job well and they will 
not quit until they do it. This is why Virgos make some of 
the most successful rages to riches stories because they 
43

know the value of 'Hard Work'. Virgo women are known to 
be some of the most beautiful women. Virgo zodiac sign is 
represented by a standing woman at the edge of the boat 
holding wheat on one hand and ayurvedic medication in the 
other. This represents the healing quality within. this. This 
symbolism of woman is the reason why Virgo women are 
more beautiful than Libra women sometimes, even though 
Libra is ruled by the planet of beauty Venus. Virgos make 
the best managers, supervisors, CEOs, Attorneys and 
Judges, because all these professions require responsibility, 
detail analysis and long hours of work. Virgo people can 
also make good novelists, because writing a novel is not an 
easy task, it is not like you are writing a college paper or an 
article. Novel writing requires long hours of writing, 
dedication and persistent work. Saturn in Virgo usually 
produces a fiction writer because Saturn and Virgo are all 
about long hours of work and taking things slow.
Libra Horoscope
Element - Air
Gender - Male
Ruler - Venus
Vedic Astrology - October 15 - November 14th
Tropical - September 23rd - October 24th
44

Libra is the seventh sign of the zodiac, which starts from 
October 15- November 14th. 
Libra is ruled by Venus, Venus which represents beauty, 
fashion, relationships, balance, art, music & good food. this 
is everything that Libra is about. Libra people are very 
mellow and sensual; they love being taken care of. Libra is 
not lazy, Libra is someone who believes that one doesn't 
need to work hard in order to achieve success, this is why 
most Librans do well in business that have residual income. 
A business avenue where they do not have redundantly 
work hard for the same thing, for this is why they love being 
in Music, movies, books, arts & craft. Even though Libra is 
about having a balance in life, the zodiac symbol of Libra 
has been mistaken. Libra is not about law only, Libra's 
symbol is about a man walking in a market with a balancer, 
as in merchant. Libra people take things slow, and love to do 
this at their own pace; this is why Libra and 7th house in 
astrology represents business, besides representing love, 
marriage and partnership. Libra doesn't like to be in a 
stressful work environment like Virgos. Libra people like to 
do things when they please; this is why they should always 
do their own business.
45

Scorpio Horoscope
Element - Water
Gender - Female
Ruler - Mars
Vedic Astrology - November 15 - December 14th
Tropical - October 23rd - November 22nd
Scorpio is the eight sign of the zodiac, which starts from 
November 15- December 14th. 
Scorpios being the 8th sign of the zodiac not only represents 
the 8th house of depth, underground world and things that 
are hidden, but it also has the power of the Numerology life 
path 8. Scorpio is the darker side of Mars, but it doesn't 
mean it is the negative side, it simply means this is the 
mystical side of Mars. Scorpio is known as the most intense 
sign because there is a war going on within them 24/7. They 
are in a constant battle with themselves, wanting to know 
the secrets of this universe and how to achieve power with 
those secrets. This is why Scorpio people make the best 
psychics, astrologers, numerologist, mystics and conspiracy 
theorist, because they want to get to the bottom of things. 
Scorpio isn't necessarily a sign that makes one a detective, 
being a detective could be anything: search for truth, for life, 
for aliens, UFO, science, mystical world etc... Scorpio 
46

represents passion and obsession. Best career for Scorpios 
are surgeon, mystics, astrologers, scientists, science fiction 
authors, dramatic and deep actors or any profession that has 
to do with finding the truth about life. In love, too, Scorpios 
make the most loyal partner due to their water nature.
Sagittarius Horoscope
Element - Fire
Gender - Male
Ruler - Jupiter
Vedic Astrology - December 15 - January 14th
Tropical - November 23rd - December 22nd
Sagittarius is the 9th sign of the zodiac, which starts from 
December 15- January 14th. 
Sagittarius is the philosopher of the zodiac. It's ruled by the 
planet of wisdom Jupiter. Jupiter represents religion, 
philosophy, expansion of wisdom, education and higher 
knowledge. Sagittarius represents the ideology of Jupiter. 
These folks are very fond of religion and following the 
righteous path, but Sagittarius people are more about be 
practical knowledge than being in the dream world of 
philosophical knowledge. Their wisdom comes from 
47

thinking logically. Sagittarius people love studying. They 
love getting their masters' degree, PhD and becoming a 
professor. If these folks can stay at a universe for life, they 
will do that. Sagittarius people are also about free spirit and 
giving space to their partner and expecting the same in 
return. For Sagittarius people, loving making isn't as 
important as talking about intellectual things while in bed. 
This is why most of the time they only prefer someone with 
low sex drive, but high educational drive. The best 
profession for these people would be to become a professor, 
writer, researcher, non-fictional writers. Sagittarius people 
are the priests, philosophers, scientific researchers, 
astrologers, astronomers, archeologist and any kind of 
teacher.
Capricorn Horoscope
Element - Earth
Gender - Female
Ruler - Saturn
Vedic Astrology - January 15 - Feburary14th
Tropical - December 23rd - January 22nd
Capricorn is the 10th sign of the zodiac, which starts from 
January 15- Feburary14th. 
48

Capricorn is a very practical and fundamental sign of the 
zodiac. The ruler Saturn, which represents delay, reality, 
boundaries, headwork and wealth, tend to keep Capricorn 
in karmic check. Since Saturn is the judge of your past life 
karmas, Capricorn people usually get their punishment 
quick if they do something wrong in their life, but that is 
why Capricorn people have the greatest wisdom about 
reality of life, because they see things for what they are, not 
for what everyone is selling them for; Capricorn makes a 
great businessmen because of those qualities. Even though 
ruled by Saturn, Capricorn people get best of everything, 
because their 7th house is ruled by the sensual Moon, while 
10th house of career is ruled by Saturn's best friend Venus. 
Capricorn people represents hard work, dedication, because 
they are an earth sign like Taurus and Virgo, and earth sign 
people are very hard working and practical. This is why 
they are the ones who reap the results faster than other 
zodiac signs. The best career for Capricorn people is politics, 
government, accountant, manager, district managers, 
lawyers, judges, police officers, anyone who loves following 
the law of the land and implementing them. Capricorn 
people are good at structuring things. 
Aquarius Horoscope
Element - Air
Gender - Male
Ruler - Saturn
Vedic Astrology - February 15 - March 14th
49

Tropical - January 23rd - February 22nd
Aquarius is the 11th sign of the zodiac, which starts from 
February 15- March 14th. 
Aquarius is the lighter side of Saturn, if Capricorn 
represented a hard worker then Aquarius represents a 
communicator who works hard. Aquarius is the original 
11th sign, which means it represents the 11th house of 
astrology, and 11th house is all about communication, 
networking and socializing with friends and wanting to 
achieve a great goal and bring the world together. This is 
why Aquarius people are very friends and social circle 
savvy. They accomplish their tasks & goals through their 
resources of network & friends. Each zodiac signs has its 
own karmic life path they take, as some make it into this 
world being alone, while other zodiac signs require 
company of others. Aquarius is no different. Since Saturn 
rules this sign, these folks get easy gains in life through 
friends and network, and they get promoted much faster 
due to their contacts. However, there is a rumor going 
around about Aquarius. They say Aquarius individual is 
heartless and they are very emotionless in romance, why? 
They are not heartless, Aquarius is an air sign like Gemini 
and Libra, and the only way a relationship survives is when 
it has the best communication between two people. The best 
career for Aquarius people are, fashion, media, PR Agent, 
wedding planar, party planar, actor, T.V. show host and a 
diva. These guys are also the natural scientists of the zodiac 
so you can also see them as mathematicians and physicists. 
50

Pisces Horoscope 
Element - Water
Gender - Female
Ruler - Jupiter
Vedic Astrology - March 15 - April 14th
Tropical - February 23rd - March 21st 
Pisces is the 12th sign of the zodiac, which starts from March 
15- April 14th. 
Even though Pisces is a water sign, they are still more 
reserved in their approach in love & romance in 
compression to Cancer and Scorpio. Pisces is the 12th and 
the last sign of zodiac, which means it represents the 12th 
house of astrology. 12th house shows your hidden talent, 
inner self, primarily, exile, isolation, dream world, the other 
dimensions and physic connection. Since this sign is ruled 
by Jupiter, Pisces is more about the spiritual realm more 
than romantic realm. Pisces people live in their own world 
most of the time, and they do not like to be bothered, 
because it disturbers their cosmic connection with thyself. 
They come off as someone who is reserved in love, but they 
are not, they just need their space most of the time. In order 
for Pisces to function properly, they need to spend time 
alone. They are like Number 7 in numerology. Pisces people 
make the best fantasy writers. They also make the best 
51

astrologers, spiritual healers, Reiki healers, pranic healers, 
physics, tarot card readers, or any type of spiritual guru or 
yoga master. These folks hate being in the real world. This 
sign is all about imagination. 
52

CHARTS and How to read them: 
Before I talk about aspects, let me show you how to 
read an astrological chart in eastern style, which is very, 
very simple and easy to learn. 
This is an East Indian Chart
The chart above is your basic astrological chart in 
Vedic Astrology. This is also known as LAGNA CHART. 
This shows the position of the planets, and the zodiac 
signs they are sitting in at any given moment.  This chart 
above is like looking at the sky above when you are 
outside. 
53

Remember (Ascendant) is the first 1st sign rising in 
the eastern horizon. In Vedic Astrology chart.
Ascendant is always the first house. Now, go counter 
clockwise to the left, where it shows number 2 in the 
above chart. That my friend is your 2nd house, now keep 
going to the next house, and next house, from 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 
5th etc.…all the way to number 12. These are your 12 
houses. They never change in your birth chart. The 2nd 
house will always be at the position where you see 
number 2. It’s that simple. So all living things on this 
planet will always have the 2nd house where number 2 is 
showing, these houses are locked in. 
Let's do a quick test. 
Show me the 10th house? 
That’s right. 10th house is the house where it says 
number 10. That’s your 10th house in Vedic (Eastern) 
astrology. The house that shows your career and what 
kind of an impact you will have on the world.  
Now you know the houses, and you know they never 
move, what always moves in this chart are the zodiac 
signs, and they move every 2.5 hours. Every 2.5 hours a 
new zodiac sign will rise from all houses. 
54

Look at the chart below. 
Ahh ohh…., what just happened? I know we see the 
1, 2, and 3 and rest of the numbers showing the house, 
but what are those numbers on top of them? 
Yes, those are your Zodiac signs rising inside each of 
the houses. 
55

Asc - the 1st house shows the number 4. What does 
that mean though? What sign is that? 
Remember the Zodiac signs always start from Aries 
as the 1st sign, Taurus as the 2nd sign, and Gemini as the 
3rd sign etc... Then what is the 4th sign of the Zodiac? 
That’s correct, CANCER. That 4 is representing Cancer 
rising. This chart is a Cancer ascendant chart. 
What sign is rising in the 10th house? 
No, not the 10th sign Capricorn. The sign that’s rising 
in the 10th house is Aries as (1), because after the 12th 
zodiac sign, it starts from the 1st sign Aries, as in after 
Pisces the 12th sign it goes back to Aries. In the 9th house 
you see 12 (Pisces), and 10th house Aries.  
That’s it, it’s that simple. You know the house and 
you now know the signs in those houses. 
Look at the chart below. 
56

Where is the Ascendant? 
Do not look for a writing showing you “Asc” or 
“Ascendant”. The ascendant is always the 1st house. Most 
software will not show you (Ascendant) writing on them. 
Now we have a problem though, we just see the 
house numbers but no zodiac signs, right? WRONG. 
Those numbers that you see are not showing you 
which house it is. What is it showing you then? 
What if the sign Aries was rising in the east, then the 
computer will simply show 1 in that ascendant box; not 
57

the house, but showing that first sign of the zodiac was 
rising in the first house.  
From the chart above, let's do a quick test. 
What sign in the 1st house? 
Yes, Aries, 
What sign in the 2nd house? 
Yes, Taurus. 
What sign is in the 7th house? 
Yes, Libra. 
A horoscope chart can also start from the first sign 
Aries, because during 24 hour period of a single day, all 
12 signs will be coming inside the 1st house. 
A normal Vedic astrology chart will never show you 
the house numbers along with the zodiac signs, because 
the software assumes you’re a professional and you 
know the very first thing about the chart, (how to read 
it). 
Next time you see a chart with numbers, don’t think 
it’s the houses, houses are fixed, but it’s the zodiac signs 
that are shown. I'll redundantly keep repeating myself 
until it becomes second nature to you. 
Okay, just one more chart now and no more chart 
teaching. 
58

On the chart above, we now have planets sitting in 
the houses. 
Can you tell me what house Moon is in? 
No, Moon is not in the 10th house. Try harder. 
Don’t look just yet, but the answer is on the other 
page. 
Your Moon is in Capricorn…. 
Can you tell me what house Moon is in? 
59

Yes, it’s in the 7th house, where Capricorn is rising. 
What does 7th house represents? 
Exactly! Marriage, spouse, nature of spouse, legal 
bindings, relations with others and business. 
Let’s do in-depth. What does Moon do in the 7th house? 
How would you determine what Moon is doing in the 7th 
house? 
1. Look at the sign its placed in (Capricorn) 
2. Look at what house Moon rules (The 
Ascendant) 
3. Know the nature of the Moon. 
4. Which zodiac sign Moon is happy and sad in, 
and which sign its neutral in? 
5. Is anyone looking (aspecting) the Moon?
6. What Nakshatra is Moon in at that time? 
You want to ask yourself all these questions, but guess 
what, you will not know what most of these questions are 
until you finish the book. 
Let’s keep going. 
60

Let’s talk about Aspects of Planets  
Aspects are simply the houses that each planet looks 
towards from the house that it sits in. An aspect simply 
means sight, or seeing something. If you’re sitting at a 
window of your apartment and you look across the 
airshaft to the building across the street; you’re aspecting 
that building.
 Instead of you, just put Saturn at the window with a 
cup of coffee, and instead of the apartment building, 
think of a astrological house; the 12th houses for 
instance. 
Saturn, sitting at the same window that you were 
sitting at but now in the 12th house, he will look towards 
building number 1 (which is the place you’re sitting at, 
inside of the apartment), building number 3, building 
number 7 and building number 10. And when he looks at 
those buildings, he affects the ambience of those 
buildings. Simply, Saturn aspects the 1st, 3rd, 7th and 
10th house from itself. This is why in the 12th house, 
Saturn would aspect the 2nd house, 6th house and 9th 
house. All aspects are counted counterclockwise. 
Let's say Saturn is sitting at the window of an 
apartment building 1 (The first house, aka, Ascendant), 
and he’s looking at his girlfriend in building (house) 3, 
but, because he’s inside a bad apartment (building 1), 
61

he’s not happy, and so he’s looking at his girlfriend 
across the airshaft with a grim and somber face. What 
does this do? Well, it will bring the girlfriend's mood 
down in building 3, and the ambience of building 3 will 
also suffer because the negative energy will transpire 
through the girlfriend and into the house. This will 
happen to the building 7 and 10 as well (meaning 
houses), because Saturn is not just looking at build 3 with 
a somber look, but all the buildings he is able to see. 
Building 7 and 10 may hold his father and friends, and it 
will not be a good feeling. 
Now, let's say Saturn was in a good (Happy) position 
in building 1, which is the apartment he’s sitting in right 
now, then he’ll be happy, and smiling, and giving kisses 
to his girlfriend, father, mother, and, his boss,  , which 
will just create a happy mood all around. 
Happy and sad mood in astrology is simply the signs 
and houses a planet sits in where he or she is either 
happy being there, sad or neutral. 
Now, how do you figure out happy or sad mood of 
Saturn, and other planets? Let’s look at the table below. I 
will only show happy and sad, as rest are neutral places 
for the planets, rest I mean rest of the zodiac signs and 
houses. Remember, there are 12 zodiac signs and 12 
houses, so the houses not mentioned in the table below 
for each planet are considered neutral places. 
But rule of thumb for aspects are that all planets give 
aspect result according to their significance and then 
their natal position in the chart. Significance simply 
62

means if the planet is a natural malefic or a natural 
benefic. 
Natural malefic: 
Saturn
Mars
Rahu
Ketu 
Sun (mild malefic) 
Natural benefic 
Jupiter
Venus
Moon
Mercury
Sun (mild benefic) 
Sun is counted both as a benefic and malefic because 
Sun is still the life force and the king so he's positive in 
nature, but Sun is also hot and it can burn things, this is 
why he's also considered malefic. 
When Saturn aspects other planets through his 3rd, 
7th and 10th aspect he will always give his malefic effects 
no matter what, but, depending upon the ascendant 
where Saturn might rule good or bad houses, he will 
alter his negativity. If Saturn aspects a planet while 
sitting in Taurus ascendant then for that ascendant 
Saturn becomes lord of the 9th and 10th house which are 
the two of the best houses in astrology, which ultimately 
makes Saturn a 'Yogakaraka' planet. You will learn about 
yogakaraka planet later in the book, but it simply means 
when one planet rules the kendra and trikona houses for 
63

a particular ascendant it becomes the most powerful 
planet for that ascendant aka rising sign. Saturn's sign 
placement will also matter; is Saturn debilitated, exalted, 
neutral, in enemy sign or in friendly sign? 
If a natural benefic aspects others planets he will 
always give positive results first but depending upon 
which house he rules he will also bring qualities of those 
houses as well along with the sign its placed in. 
If Jupiter is in the ascendant and Jupiter aspects the 
5th, 7th and 9th house from itself, so any planets that 
comes in his aspect will reap the great benefices of the 
most optimistic planet in astrology. In the ascendant 
Jupiter aspects the 5th, 7th and 9th house directly. But, 
depending upon the ascendant itself Jupiter can alter his 
result. If Jupiter is in Cancer ascendant, then Jupiter 
becomes the lord of the 6th house which is a malefic 
house and the lord of 9th house, because 6th house for 
cancer ascendant is ruled by Sagittarius and 9th house is 
ruled by Pisces, both are under the ownership of Jupiter. 
In this case, Jupiter with his optimism of 9th house can 
bring out debt, obstacle and disease for the native which 
are qualities of the 6th house, especially if Jupiter is near 
the rising sign degrees or ascendant degrees. The aspect 
depends upon the functional malefic and functional 
benefic planets for each ascendant, which you will a


...[PDF truncated for import]