# Extracted from: Mahadashas Speed of Light.pdf

1
Mahadashas @ The Speed of Light
 by Kapiel Raaj
© copyright 2015 
www.AstrologyKRS.com
KRSchannel
please be courteous to my hard work and do not upload this book on any 
online format. I have put two years into writing this book. 
Edited by 
Corey Dowds

2

3
INDEX
Beginners Note: .......................................................................5
How to judge the Impact of Dashas ..............................................11
Planetary Meaning: .......................................................................35
The Sun Through the Houses: ...............................................45
The Moon through the houses: ..............................................58
Mercury through the houses: .................................................70
Venus through the houses:.....................................................84
Mars through the Houses:....................................................100
Jupiter through the houses:..................................................117
Saturn through the houses: ..................................................136
Rahu through the houses: ....................................................154
Ketu Through the houses:....................................................175
Important Note for the Beginner .........................................193
Chart Study:.........................................................................196

4

5
Beginners Note: 
You must have basic knowledge of Vedic Astrology before 
reading this book. If you are extremely new to astrology please 
read my book 'Astrology @ the speed of light' followed by 
Conjunctions and Aspects @ the speed of light.. You should have 
fair understanding of houses, signs, planets, nakshatras, aspects, 
conjunctions and transits. These concepts can be understood in 
less than a day by reading my book. If you have never seen your 
Vedic birth chart before then please go to my website 
www.astrologykrs.com.

6

7
What are Mahadashas? First, instead of me spelling 
the name "Mahadasha" in the entire book,  I will simply refer to it 
as “MD”. It will make things easier on everyone. MDs are known 
as planetary time periods in Vedic Astrology which every single 
living entity is running through from the moment they are born 
until the moment they die. These are cycles of planets that come 
into our lives to bring about a change, whether it's a certain 
situation, our ego, personality, perspective in life or even 
material/spiritual progress. MDs are the code breakers to 
predicting the past, present and future. They tell you what has 
happened, what is to come and what will happen in the coming 
cycle. 
The first thing about MDs you need to know is that planets do not 
start effecting you through some magical powers. The MD cycle 
shows activation of a certain chakra within your body at a certain 
age which are linked to the planets. MD are also the karmic pattern 
put as a set path by looking at the degrees of your moon. The 
position of the moon at birth sets this automatic path for you to alk 
on. Of course activation of chakras will not make you holy or wise 
because 99% of our chakras are clogged with dirty from past life 
karms which needs to be clean in this life.  When the cycle of a 
certain planet starts it first affects your mind. You become a 
different person from the inside out. You start to behave and think 
like the planet through which your actions are brought forth in the 
world. The calculative method given by Rishi Parashara is simply 
to show "light" upon the path for a jataka.

8
I am sure you all know a person who went through the same 
routine year after year, not changing anything; but then suddenly 
they became different, unique, weird or even cool. Most will 
blame it on age, or their birthday; but many do not know that this 
same person might have just started a new MD after perhaps 
decades. Each planetary MD has its own length of time. Each 
planet has a certain number of years that they will operate in a 
person's life. The chronological order of planetary MDs you see 
below occurs for everyone. 
Sun - 6 years
Moon - 10 years
Mars - 7 years
Rahu - 18 years
Jupiter - 16 years
Saturn- 19 years
Mercury - 17 years
Ketu - 7 years
Venus 20 - years 
No matter what happens, after the Sun time period an individual 
will run the Moon time period.  After that they will run the Mars 
period, and then comes Rahu, and so on and so forth. You will 
never see a chart where a person runs through a 7 year time period 
of Mars and then starts Saturn, no. After Mars, there will always 
be  a Rahu period. Do not forget this order which starts from Sun 
and ends with Venus. 
When an individual is running through their Sun time period they 
will act like the Sun. If someone is running through Rahu period 
they will act like Rahu. A certain planetary time period brings 
many things to the surface. Below are the things that the individual 
will deal with in each mahadasha.

9
Why this sequence though? Why does Venus come after Ketu, 
why does the Sun come after Venus and why does the Moon come 
before the Mars period? 
The actual sequence of dashas actually starts from 'Kritika' 
nakshatra; the fire of creation, the spiritual fire that gave life to this 
Universe. Krittika is the desire of God that wanted to created this 
physical existence. But we will stick to what is known as the Ketu 
starting period. Why does the first nakshatra start with Ashwini 
which is controlled by Ketu? That is why when the Moon is in this 
nakshatra the Ketu MD starts. Ketu is our past, what we have 
accumulated in past life is the experience we are now bringing into 
this life. Our past karmas are the reason why we now exist again 
on this plain. 
The way to determine which MD a person will start at the moment 
they are born is seen through the nakshatra that the moon is placed 
in. You must have basic knowledge of nakshatras to understand 
this part. These are 27 lunar mansions which are known as 
constellations in english. They are the group of stars working 
behind the scenes of a zodiac sign. Depending upon a certain 
nakshatra the native will start their life with a particular MD cycle. 
They can either start from the beginning, middle or end of a certain 
dasha. This part is determined by the Pada that the moon is placed 
in. Each nakshatra has 4 padas. 
If the moon is placed in Magha nakshatra at birth, the native will 
start their life with Ketu mahadasha running. But how long will 
that MD be? Perhaps that MD may only last for 1 year, or 3 years.  
For this look at the pada of the moon in the child's report. If the 
Moon is in the 4th pada the baby will start their life towards the 
end of Ketu dasha. If moon is in the 2nd pada then they will start 
from 1/4 of the way into the dasha. 
Each of the 27 nakshatras are ruled by a certain planet, this is how 
we know which planet the MD of a native will start from.

10
I will now show you the nakshatra name and the planet that rules 
it. 
1. Ashwini - Ketu
2. Bharani - Venus
3. Krittika - Sun
4. Rohini - moon
5. Mirgshira - Mars
6. Ardra - Rahu
7. Punravasu - Jupiter
8. Pushya - Saturn
9. Ashlesha - Mercury
10. Magha - Ketu
11. Purva Phalguni - Venus
12. Uttara Phalguni - Sun
13. Hasta - Moon
14. Chitra - Mars
15. Swati - Rahu
16. Vishaka - Jupiter
17. Anuradha - Saturn
18. Jyestha - Mercury
19. Mula - Ketu
20. Pruva Ashada - Venus
21. Uttara Ashada - Sun
22. Sharavan - Moon
23. Dhanishta - Mars
24. Satabisha - Rahu
25. Purva Bhadrapada - Jupiter
26. Uttara Bhadrapada - Saturn
27. Revati - Mercury

11
How to judge the Impact of Dashas 
• The person will become more like the planet in its time 
period. 
• Whichever house the planet is the karaka of those houses 
will become active as well. 
• The house which the planet rules in the horoscope will 
become the focus of life and will become active. 
• The house in which the planet sits in will express the issues 
related to the house it rules. 
• The sign placement of the planet will show in which form 
the person will experience those things. 
• The nakshatra in which the planet sits in will give results of 
the placement of nakshatra lord. 
• Day vs. Night birth
• Aspects of the planets become active

12
• The pada of the planets shows the time of major results. 
• Mahadashas can also be judged from alternative 
ascendants. 
• Planets in the nakshatra of the MD lord will also activate 
themselves. 
• Through the understanding of Varga Vimshopak of planets
• Through the Dasha Pravesh concept 
• Through the Varshphal Chart

13
Details of bullet points 
• The person will become more like the planet in its time 
period. 
The person will become more like the planet simply means that the 
personality of the person will be taking on the astrological qualities 
of the planet. If a person is running through MD of Saturn, which 
is a 19 year time period, the person will become more serious, 
mature, wise, more of a workaholic, will feel old, may get grey 
hairs, and will start loving older, classical and antique things. If a 
person is going through the time period of Mercury, (17 years) 
then they will become more jolly, fun, communicative, desiring to 
have a social circle, perhaps will educate themselves or attain a 
higher education, take some certification course, or write a book. If 
Venus period is operating then the person wants to become 
creative, artistic, feminine, and experience more of the luxury and 
pleasures of life. They will be surrounded by more women than 
men. Even if a lawyer or doctor goes through the time period of 
Venus they will be inclined to take on creative activities, whether 
its painting or playing a piano. Jupiter period makes a person 
(sometimes) too optimistic, philosophical and a natural teacher, 
they feel hopeful, inspired and yearn to learn wisdom. They love to

14
direct things and guide things in Jupiter mahadasha and things 
come easily into their life. The Moon will make a person more 
motherly, emotional, attached to home and mother. They will be 
extra nourishing to everyone they love. 
The Mars time period of 7 years will make the person extremely 
competitive, aggressive and technical. They will seek to win every 
opportunity they get in life, and in such times they will either 
benefit from male siblings and friends or will go against them.  
Many men who run through Mars mahadasha in late teen and early 
20's will probably want to join the army, police, navy or become 
an athlete. Rahu’s period of 18 years can be quite an unorthodox 
period. One will be free spirited, ambitious, wanting to break the 
rules and law and perhaps be part of activity that might be 
considered taboo in current society.  The Ketu period of 7 years 
will make a person more spiritual and introverted, wanting to join 
a yoga/meditation group, or search for things of an occult or 
mystical nature. They may go into research based studies and 
travel to spiritually isolated places. If Rahu and Ketu become part 
of a Raj Yoga in the birth chart then these same planets can give 
material and political success.
• Whichever house the planet is the karaka of those 
houses will become active as well. 
In astrology each planet is a holder or the permanent landlord of a 
certain house regardless of which house it rules in your ascendant 
or where it's placed. During their MD, AD, PD period you will 
deal with not only the houses the planet rules, but the house it's a 
"karaka" of aka significator. Below is the table of the planet being 
karaka of certain houses. 
House 1 - Sun
House 2 - Jupiter/Mercury
House 3 - Mars
House 4 - Moon/ Mars for Property/Venus for vehicles

15
House 5 - Jupiter
House 6 - Mars/Saturn
House 7 - Venus
House 8 - Saturn
House 9 - Jupiter
House 10 - Sun, Saturn
House 11 - Jupiter (guru, teacher)/Sun (father) 
House 12 - Saturn
Regardless of which houses the planet is placed in or which house 
it rules it will also activate the houses rule by that planet. 
i.e. If Jupiter in Libra ascendant rules the 3rd, and 6th house while 
it's sitting in the 10th house; it will also bring about situations 
related to 2nd, 5th, 9th and 11th house which is family, wealth, 
speech, children, education, long distance travel, higher education, 
father, friends, gains, hopes, desires and organizations. 
If Saturn MD is operating then regardless of its placement it will 
bring about situations related to 6th, 8th and 12th house which is 
debts, diseases, transformation, occult, secrets, bed pleasures, 
foreign lands, isolation and dealing with the outer world. 
• The house which the planet rules in the horoscope will 
become the focus of life. 
In astrology the planets rule zodiac signs. Most rule 2 signs each 
while the Sun and Moon only rule one sign. This is astrology 101 
which I am hoping you already know, if you don't then read my 
book “Astrology @ The Speed of Light”. Depending on which 
ascendant you are, a planet will control a certain house because 
that house will have that planet's sign placed in it. When the 
mahadasha of a certain planet starts, whichever house that planet 
rules, those houses will start bringing situations to you regarding 
their agenda.

16
i.e: If you are a Cancer ascendant and you are going through a 16 
year period of Jupiter, then which houses will be activated in its 
time period? If you are a Cancer ascendant then Jupiter will rule 
the 6th and 9th house. This means for 16 years the person will be 
dealing with service, enemies, obstacles, debts, higher wisdom, 
philosophy, long distance travel, post grade education and coming 
across spiritual gurus, which are foundational meanings of these 
two houses. Jupiter as you know brings over optimism and a broad 
sense of thinking in the individual's personality; these folks in any 
condition will be optimistic about dealing with all the situations 
related to 6th and 9th house. 
i.e: If you are a Taurus ascendant and you are going through the 19 
year time period of Saturn: Saturn for Taurus ascendant rules the 
9th and 10th house which means these two houses will be 
activated for 19 years and will be the major focal point for the 
person. They will be dealing with authorities, bosses, reputation, 
father, law, morality, higher philosophy, long distance travel, 
spiritual wisdom and post grad education. Since Saturn is a straight 
forward serious planet, the person will be facing all these 
situations with due-diligence, discipline and organized skills. They 
will be extremely practical about their reputation in public life, and 
what they learn because what they learn must come into use in the 
practical world.  
i.e: If you are an Aries ascendant and you are going through 7 year 
time period of Mars that means for those 7 years you will be 
focused on your self, health, inheritance, secrets, surgeries, secret 
affairs and gaining through death. But due to Mars being active 
you will be extremely aggressive, to the point of becoming 
competitive about achieving such goals. This is because for Aries 
Mars rules the 1st and 8th house. 
Just imagine the activation of mahadashas as the activation of  a 
certain energy or aura that comes over you like a plague. You 
know you can't escape but you embrace it.

17
• The house in which the planet sits in will express the 
issues related to the house it rules. 
This bullet point simply means that when a planet is activated, the 
houses it rules are activated. Depending upon which house the 
planet is sitting in, the native will experience things related to its 
houses through the house where the planet is sitting in. Doesn't 
make sense? let's look at an example. 
i.e. . If you are a Cancer ascendant and you are going through a 16 
year period of Jupiter, then which houses will be activated in its 
time period? If you are a Cancer ascendant then Jupiter will rule 
the 6th and 9th house. This means for 16 years you will be dealing 
with service, enemies, obstacles, debts, higher wisdom, 
philosophy, long distance travel, post grade education and coming 
across spiritual gurus; all of which are cornerstone meanings of 
these two houses. If Jupiter is sitting in the 7th house then that 
means you will experience things of 6th and 9th houses through 
the 7th house. You will be dealing with obstacles, enemies, 
diseases, higher wisdom, philosophical knowledge, and meeting 
spiritual gurus through partnerships, relationships and marriage. 
There would be natural disagreements in the marriage or with  the 
marriage partner. Your marriage partner might be your guru. You 
may have to face litigation in court houses to solve a dispute since  
the 7th house represents court houses.  You may be guiding and

18
counseling people who are running through disputes, divorces and 
making business deals for day to day activities since the 6th house 
also represents our everyday routine. But will the person face all 
the things, or certain ones, or will he or she face everything at the 
same time? That's the question you must be asking. All of these 
details will be discussed in later chapters. Whether you will 
experience everything, or some of the things depends upon the 
condition of the planet, the sub periods (antar dasha) and transits of 
planet coming at the right time. 
• The sign placement of the planet will show in which 
form the person will experience those things. 
The above statement simply means what kind of a jacket or coat is 
the planet wearing. How are they expressing themselves? Imagine 
if you are a planet but you have a certain sense of style; maybe you 
are Goth and wear all black and love dark demonic stuff along 
with dark punk rock music or you are a hippy with long hair and a 
beard with some grass in your pocket, perhaps you love wearing 
sweat pants and shirts because you are a natural athlete. All of 
these qualities simply means how you are expressing yourself. 
Sun in the sign of Libra means that the Sun is wearing the outfit of 
Libra. Mars in Gemini in your horoscope shows that Mars is 
wearing a jacket and hat of Gemini. The sign in which the planet is 
placed in is how they express themselves through those signs. I 
have already made a video on planets in signs on my Youtube 
channel. For example, if Mars is in Gemini in your horoscope it 
shows that you love to rush and gather information before anyone 
gets it, you have too many ideas that you want to aggressively 
pursue. You want to compete with everyone regarding who has the 
correct information. If Mars is in Gemini in the 3rd house, this 
shows us that one competes with their siblings and friends

19
regularly regarding intellectual discussions. They will make 
countless arguments to satisfy their evidence. 
If you are an Aries ascendant and Mars is in the 3rd house in 
Gemini, this shows that your personality and your agenda in life is 
to expose secret information by doing investigative journalism, or 
someone who wants to know secrets of other people and be the 
first one to announce it to the world like a paparazzi. This means in 
the mahadasha of Mars, in such a position, will incline you to be 
rushing towards gaining access to secret documents and 
information to use it for your advantage.
If the Sun is in Libra in your 3rd house, this means you are a Leo 
ascendant. The Sun is wearing the outfit of Libra and it shows that 
one's ego, self-esteem and confidence will be shine through by 
creative expression, artistry and artistic self-expression. This is 
because the Sun rules the 1st house of self while expressing 
himself in the 3rd house of media and skills with one’s hands. In  
the MD of the Sun, one will suddenly find themselves collecting 
information, putting their own effort into making money, and 
wanting to do creative things or take on artistic hobbies. Since the 
Sun represents the father it shows that one's father could damage 
one's effort towards work if the Sun is close to its maximum 
debilitation which is 10 degrees of Libra. In other degrees Sun will 
simply show that the father will be  involved with creating 
business deals, relationships with siblings and helping the 
individual to express themselves. 
• The nakshatra in which the planet sits in will give 
results of the placement of the nakshatra lord. 
This is a fairly unique concept. Nakhsatras are the constellations 
working behind the scenes of the zodiac signs. I have covered in-
depth details on nakshatras on my channel so please watch those 
videos before going further into this book. Most of the zodiac signs 
have 2-2.5 nakshtras working behind the scenes. Aries zodiac

20
signs has Ashwini, Bharani and Krittika nakshatra working behind 
the scenes, the Krittika nakshatra spills into the Taurus zodiac 
signs. In which nakshatra your planet is placed in depends upon 
the degrees in which your planet is placed in your horoscope. All 
these details are given on my channel and website. 
If you are a Leo ascendant with the Sun in the 3rd house in the 
sign of Libra and nakshatra of Vishaka, what this means is that the 
Sun is at a certain degree of the Libra zodiac sign where this 
nakshatra of Vishaka is working behind the scenes. This means the  
Sun must be between 20 degrees all the way to 3.20 degrees of 
Scorpio. Vishaka nakshatra is ruled by Jupiter. We now have to 
look for the placement of Jupiter. Let's assume Jupiter is sitting in 
the 9th house. What does this mean? This means, the person will 
not only deal with issues with the father, power struggles with 
siblings while pursuing traveling related to contracts, business 
partnerships or creativity, but the person will be seeing the effects 
of the 9th house and may travel to a long distance place for 
religious, educational or work purposes. What is happening is the 
Sun starts to act like Jupiter but in a more Solar way. Imagine the 
Sun wearing the outfit of Libra but has the undershirt and 
underwear of Jupiter; internally he feels philosophical, spiritual, 
and like a teacher. In Sun MD the person will find a guru either in 
a long distance place, ashram or at their university. 
I will also add that I tend to mash the KP Astrology method while 
reading the result of the dasha lord. The dasha lord is set to give 
results of the houses of the nakshatra lord it sits in including where 
the nakshatra lord is placed. For example: If Jupiter is in Uttara 
Phalguni nakshatra in the 1st house that means the nakshatra is 
ruled by the Sun. Let's say the Sun is in the sign of Virgo in the 9th 
house while the Sun rules the 8th house. Jupiter in it's dasha will 
give results of 12th, 3rd, 8th and 9th house through the 1st house 
placement. Try this and you will never fail. The same analysis can 
be used for antar dasha, pratyantar , sookshma and prana lord 
dasha.

21
• The pada of the planets shows the time of major results. 
Each planet sits in a certain nakshatra in a birth chart but each 
nakshatra has four padas. Padas are important determining factors 
in understanding how long the native's first MD will be and when 
the trigger point of the planetary MD will be felt. If you were born 
with the Moon in Leo, in the 4th pada of Magha nakshatra, this 
means you started your life from the end point of Ketu MD. If you 
were born in the 2nd pada of Magha nakshatra, then you would 
start your life from the middle of Ketu's period of 7 years. 
But knowing which pada each planet is placed in will show at 
which point the planet will give his or her results at its maximum. 
If you are running the MD of Jupiter in your life, look at Jupiter in 
your birth horoscope and see which pada it's sitting in. If Jupiter is 
in the 4th pada of any nakshatra then the true nature and effects of 
Jupiter will be strongly felt towards the end of Jupiter's MD, 
around 3/4 of the way. For example, lets say Jupiter is sitting in 
pada 2 of Uttara Bhadrapada nakshatra while you're running your 
Jupiter MD from the age of 25. Knowing the Jupiter period is of 16 
years, you will really feel the effect of that Jupiter in the horoscope 
towards the end of 16th year, or perhaps from the 13-16 year 
period when you will be 41 to 44. Depending upon how Jupiter is 
situated, these results will either be felt positively or negativity. 
• Day birth vs. Night birth

22
Being born during the sunrise or sunset will cause different planets 
to gain strength. This is a little different than the Sun or Moon hora 
concept. 
If you are born during the day or before sunset then the Sun, Venus 
and Jupiter become strong regardless of their placement in the 
horoscope. If you are born after sunset, then Moon, Mars and 
Saturn become strong. If you're born during sunrise or sunset then 
Mercury becomes strong. This will impact the implication of MDs 
for the native. 
As an example, if you are going through your Saturn MD and you 
are born between sunset and the next sunrise then Saturn naturally 
becomes strong. From 7pm to 4 am Saturn is naturally strong. This 
doesn't mean if you are born in day time Saturn is not strong, but 
there is a natural strength and accumulated strength through sign,  
house, nakshatra, varga and ashtakavarga. 
If you are born between Sunrise to Sunset as in 6 am to 6 pm then 
Sun, Jupiter and Venus naturally become strong. Even if Venus is 
debilitated it's capable of finding strength within itself to love, and 
have selfless devotion. However if Venus does not have 
accumulated strength as per the house, nakshatra, varga position 
Venus will still have the ability to win and reach its highest of 
purity through native's own will power. 
When I see someone born at night I know they have to work extra 
hard to work on their confidence, self-esteem and ego due to Sun 
naturally being on the dark side. Even an exalted Sun will have a 
tough time exposing its strength at first, but over time they come 
out shining. 
Mercury is naturally strong during Sunrise and Sunset because 
logically you can see Mercury during these early and late 
afternoon time with your telescope if it's rotating in front of your 
horizon. Mercury also represents change of time due to its dual

23
nature since Night transforms into Day and visa versa; summer 
turns into fall and spring turns into summer which are controlled 
by Mercury's zodiac signs of Gemini and Virgo due the transit of 
Sun during these months. 
• Aspects of the planet becomes active
Whichever planetary MD you are running through all of its aspect 
become activate. In astrology all physical planets Sun, Moon, 
Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn have 7th aspect meaning 
they look directly opposite to their placement in the house. When 
their MD runs that particular aspect becomes active and alive. 
Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu have special apsects. 
Mars - 4, 7, 8 as in Mars will always aspect 4th, 7th and 8th place 
from itself. 
Jupiter 5, 7, 9 aspect. Jupiter will always aspect 5th, 7th, and 9th 
place from wherever he sits. 
Saturn 3, 7, 10 aspect. Saturn will always aspect 3rd, 7th and 10th 
place from itself where ever it sits. 
Rahu/Ketu have 5th and 9th aspect. 
Please read my book Aspects @ the speed of light to understand 
aspect and they work.

24
If you are running through 16 year period of Jupiter and Jupiter is 
sitting in the 2nd house in your horoscope then it will always 
aspect 6th house, 8th house and 10th house. All aspects are 
counted counter clock wise. In Jupiter period image 6th, 8th and 
10th house having bright yellow light of Jupiter hitting upon them. 
This can show one will have blessings to pay their debts of and 
win over enemies and overcome their illnesses (6th house). There 
will be less sudden dramatic events, surgeries, or hidden enemies 
while one will find great hidden knowledge during this period (8th 
house). The career will always feel blessed, even if someone loses 
a job they will find another job soon after and their reputation will 
always be protected no matter how bad the situation is. 
• Judging mahadashas from alternative ascendants
What are alternative ascendants? Alternative ascendants are used 
to judge planetary MDs (as well as Antar and Pratyantar dasas) 
through different ascendants like your main birth ascendant, Moon 
ascendant, Sun ascendant, Jupiter ascendant, or also making the 
current MD lord the ascendant. 
In Parashara Hora Shashtra it's said to check for events not just 
from one ascendant but from other places as well to confirm the 
event. But also the reason why we check through different 
placements is because with bad times you can also run into good 
times. In Vedic astrology, the Moon ascendant becomes equally 
important to your birth ascendant as we can read the chart from the 
moon and predict just as accurately, including using transits. Then, 
the Sun is the third option as we see how the ego of the native will 
be effected by a certain MD. Making Jupiter the ascendant is also 
important as Jupiter is the Jeeva karaka, karaka of "Life", this is 
why Jupiter controls Biology and all living existence on this 
planet. 
MD planet as the Ascendant:

25
If you are going through the MD of Saturn, and Saturn is in the 5th 
house in Aquarius, that means you are a Libra ascendant, but for 
the 19 year time period of Saturn you will be changing as a person 
in your ego, personality and persona; this is why we want to make 
Saturn’s position the ascendant. Just switch the chart to Aquarius 
ascendant with Saturn in the ascendant and look for planetary 
placements of your birth chart from Saturn. 
i.e.: If you are going through the MD of Saturn, and Saturn is 
placed in the 8th house from your ascendant, this can show that the 
19 year period may bring sudden ups-&-downs in life. But if from 
the Moon, Saturn is in the 9th house, this can also show that one 
does very well academically, spiritually and has good luck during 
this MD. If Saturn is in the 5th house from the Sun then it shows 
great academic achievements, interest in politics, or birth of 
children to improve the status of the native. But to see how the 
individual's personality is going to be, and how other antar dashas 
will reach and how their results will be you will also want to judge 
the horoscope by making Saturn the ascendant lord. One thing to 
understand here is that you should also judge your dhan yog and 
raj yogas from making Saturn the ascendant lord as well. All dhan 
yogas and Raj yogas occurring from Saturn will come alive during 
it's dasha; especially during the transit of major planets over those 
yogas. 
• Planets in the nakshatra of the MD lord will also 
activate themselves. 
In Vedic Astrology Nakshatras are also ruled by planets and when 
a certain MD is running, let's assume Jupiter MD, then any planet 
in the birth chart sitting in the nakshatra of Jupiter will also 
activate themselves and situations related to that planet. Jupiter 
rules the nakshatra of Punravasu, Vishaka, and Pruva Bhadrapada.   
If any planet is in any one of these nakshatras then they will

26
activate themselves to bring certain results into play.  This is 
something I learned from Sam Geppi (Sada Siva). He also gave a 
lecture on this on my Youtube channel. I found this to be quite 
accurate and helpful during my own research and studies. 
i.e. If you are a Cancer ascendant and you are running through the 
MD of Ketu who is sitting in the 8th house; this can show someone 
might suddenly find themselves being involved in occult, 
mysticism, or secret underground worlds. If the person has the 
Sun, Mars, Saturn and Mercury in the 10th house in the sign of 
Aries but nakshatra of Ashwini, which is ruled by Ketu, then 
suddenly the 10th house will come alive with all these planets. 
Usually people suffer in Ketu MD and feel isolated, but in this 
case one can suddenly find themselves in a leadership position, 
receiving sudden benefit from government or becoming a 
government leader. 
If one is going through the time period of Venus, of 20 years, and 
you have planets in your horoscope sitting in the nakshatra of 
Purva Phalguni, Bharani or Purva Ashada which are Venus' 
nakshatra; then all those planets will come alive and start giving 
their results at that time. 
This is why in any given MD we will experience everything in our 
lives but we can still pinpoint each event by narrowing down 
through the MD, AD, PD, SD and PD and transits. 
• Varga Vimshopak of Planets: 
Varga Vimshopak is a concept which takes the strength of each of 
the planets in the divisional charts and shows us how strong a 
planet is in terms of giving its results. When we look at Varga 
Vimshopak, I personally have found only a few divisional charts 
we must pay attention to. Besides the birth chart we should always 
look at the sign/house placement of planets in the D9 (Navamsa), 
D3 (Dreekana), D7 (Saptamsa), D4 (Chaturtamsa), D10 (Dasamsa)

27
and the D60 (Shastiamsa). D9 is the heart of the planet, the 
strength of their health, D3 shows the courage of planets and 
willingness to fight the battle, D7 shows the manifestation of 
planets and how strongly they can manifest your desires, D4 is 
what the planet is destined for, D10 reveals what success the planet  
will give professionally, and the D60 shows the ultimate strength 
of the planets. When analyzing the divisional charts, always look 
at the conjuncts and aspects of other planets and once you have 
seen all the charts then with your intelligence make the decision of 
what impact the planet will have in the native's chart. Do not go on 
automatic calculations given by the software, they are not taking a 
lot of things into account as I mentioned here. You must use your 
divine intelligence whenever deciding the shadbala and varga 
vimshopak strength. Perhaps in future the software will become as 
sufficient as a human astrologer. 
• Dasha Pravesh of planets: 
This is a concept I learned from Marc Boney and Vaughn Paul 
Manley when they came on my Youtube channel. It's a concept 
that takes the day and time you will enter your new dasha and puts 
the exact planetary placement upon your birth ascendant like a 
snapshot of the sky. This is the concept that shows the foundation 
of the coming dasha and how it will operate along with which 
house it will really effect based on which sign the dasha lord is 
currently transiting in. You must look at the aspects, conjunctions 
and yogas being formed in the chart. This technique sets the tone 
of the dasha regardless of how the planet is in your horoscope. 
This is why perhaps you may see an exalted planet giving ill 
results despite having high shad bala and ashtakavarga points. This 
is why it takes a super brain to really decode this super science. 
Many who learn jyotish get discouraged due to such in-depth 
analysis and knowledge but it's like being a chef; you can't make a 
100 dish from only 5 spices. You need to know about hundreds of 
spices and ingredients to really become a top chef.

28
What are Sub-periods? Sub-periods are mini periods of planets 
that come within the major time period of a planet. If you are 
going through a 6 year time period of the Sun then in that period 
other planets will come into play to do their part and bring other 
house situations alive. This is why in one single MD we 
experience everything but the main theme is always the MD. There 
are about 4 major sub-periods within an MD. 
• Antar Dasha
• Prayantar Dasha
• Sookshma Dasha
• Prana Dasha
What are Antar Dashas? We will refer to Antar Dashas as AD to 
make things easier. AD are the sub periods that come within a MD. 
This is why we as human beings do not just experience one 
situation give by one planet; sub periods bring us other situations 
within our major agenda given by the MD. 
i.e.- In a six year time period of the Sun MD you will have all the 
other planets come into play for about 4-5 months at a time. The 
time period of the Sun will start from Sun MD and Sun AD, 
followed by
Sun MD / Moon AD
Sun MD / Mars AD
Sun MD / Rahu AD
Sun MD / Jupiter AD
Sun MD / Saturn AD
Sun MD / Mercury AD
Sun MD / Ketu AD
Sun MD / Venus AD

29
In the six year time period of the Sun, all the planets come in and 
play their part. This will bring situations related to many other 
houses. 
The first MD, AD, PD, SD and PD will be of the planet itself, as in 
Sun/Sun/Sun/Sun/Sun period, followed by Sun (mahadasha), Sun 
(antar dasha), Sun (Paryantar dasha), Sun (Sookshma dasha), 
Moon (Prana dasha) period. The time of birth has to be extremely 
accurate for these last two periods to be studied, a few minute 
difference can throw your prediction off by weeks. 
i.e. #2
If you are a Leo ascendant with your Sun in the 3rd house at 21 
degrees, this means the Sun is in the sign of Libra and Nakshatra 
of Vishaka. Let's still assume that Jupiter is in the 9th house in the 
sign of Aries. But Mars is in the 7th house in the sign of Aquarius. 
The person is running through a MD of the Sun and AD of Mars. 
Sun rules the 1st house and Mars rules the 4th and 9th house. What 
will this time period bring? 
In such periods, especially the 6 years of the Sun, he or she will be 
doing a lot of short distance traveling, as well as or including long 
distance travel since the Sun is in the nakshatra of Jupiter; who is 
in the 9th house of long distance travel. They might be dealing 
with authoritative figures, father related issues, issues with 
siblings, or experience a creative time period. But Mars’s time 
period comes into play for 4 months. Since Mars is in the 7th 
house the person will also have to deal with the issues of 
relationships, marriage or partnerships. Since Mars rules the 4th 
and 9th house, Mars will give results of the 4th and 9th houses 
while wearing the costume of Aquarius. This placement of Mars 
will show issues related to relationships will arise due to 
involvements of the mother and traveling. There will be power 
struggles felt in a relationship due to home, mother and gurus. 
Also, this period can show the mother traveling away from home 
in search for a person's partnership or due to property related

30
issues. This can also show your spouse or partner will travel since 
Mars rules the 9th house. 
We also have to take into account the nakshatra of Mars. If Mars is 
sitting in the nakshatra of Satabhisha which is ruled by Rahu, we 
have to see where Rahu is placed. If Rahu is placed in the 2nd 
house then Mars will not only bring the issues of the 4th and 9th 
house through 7th house but will also give results of the 2nd house 
which is the house of family, assets, earnings and banking. 
In Sun MD and Mars AD, the person can experience gains through 
property related issues, or through the spouse or mother. This is a 
positive period because Rahu is sitting in the house of money, 
wealth and savings. 
What about the dispositor of Sun and Mars? How does the zodiac 
sign lord’s placement affect this? Sun in Libra means that Venus 
becomes the dispositor and Mars in Aquarius means Saturn 
becomes the dispositor. This determines the positive, negative and 
neutral results of the given time periods. Dispositors are like 
nakshatras lords but with a louder voice. 
Dispositors are like a foundation of the planet. If the foundation of 
the house is weak the house can fall or will be very unstable to live 
in, putting the person in constant fear of having the roof fall on 
their head. This also sets the tone on how the planet will behave by 
seeing which sign their dispositors are placed in. 
i.e. If Jupiter is in the sign of Leo and nakshatra of Maga in the 
ascendant, while the Sun is in the sign of Libra and nakshatra lord 
Ketu is in the 8th house in Pisces, how will the MD of Jupiter be? 
In the MD of Jupiter the person will not only want to do creative 
things like cinema, acting, directing, writing and being part of the 
media but they will also find interest in the occult, spirituality and 
mysticism. The creative part comes due to the dispositor of Jupiter

31
being in the creative sign of Libra in the 3rd house. The occult part 
is due to nakshatra lord Ketu in the spiritual sign of Pisces and in 
the 8th house of the occult. These two things will be the major 
highlight of the 16 years. But there will be different timing as to 
when such events will trigger their maximum juice. 
When a person runs into the MD of Jupiter and AD of the Sun they 
will suddenly find themselves in a creative realm. When the person 
runs into the MD of Jupiter and AD of Ketu they will suddenly fall 
in love with the darker side of life, especially occult science. But 
we must not forget that Jupiter will bring his own quality into play 
and will make the native act more like a teacher, guru or advisor. 
Jupiter will also activate the situation related to the house he rules 
which are the 5th and 8th houses for Leo ascendant. 
What is a Prayantar Dasha? We will refer to Prayantar 
Dasha as PD to make things easier. PD is known as the sub-sub 
period within a MD. In Vedic astrology most astrologers use 
MD, AD, PD and transits of planets to make a prediction. MD 
is about the overall period cycle, AD narrows the time down to 
months and PD shows the initiation of the event that is to 
happen. Through this method a well qualified astrologer can 
see that within a 2 to 4 month time period you may get a 
surgery, accident, have a child, get married or go for a higher 
education. All the basic necessities of life can be predicted 
through this including when really bad things happen as in 
someone being raped, murdered,  or killed.
i.e. Lets say you are a LEO ascendant with Mars in the 8th 
house along with Jupiter in Pisces and while the Sun is in the 
4th house of Scorpio. We can see the general conception of the 
event if the person is going through MD of Sun, AD of Mars 
and PD of Jupiter that in such time a person may either get a 
surgery, or get a sudden windfall of wealth through real estate 
and in-laws. By the first glance at the horoscope we as 
astrologers feel that something related to major transformation

32
will be happening with either home, mother, health or 
inheritance. 
What we want to figure out is will this even be good, neutral or 
bad? In such case we use, dispositors, naksahtra, pada, and 
varga charts (divisional charts), Since we are mainly dealing 
with a time period related to 1st, 4th, 5th, 8th and 9th houses, 
we will glance at the D16, D24, D30, and yes, the D9 chart. 
Why D4? D4 is the chart related to home, D24 relates to 
education, D30 relates to diseases and misfortune and D9 tells 
us the strength of the D1 planets. 
Sounds complicated? Yes, it is, and for some time until you 
regularly see people's charts, patterns and situations… 
Suddenly everything will come to you quickly, but you will 
never, ever be 100% right, getting close to a 70%-85% of 
prediction is a good prediction as most astrologers are missing 
the most important ingredient: intuition. By the end of this 
book you should have a pretty good idea about how the timing 
system works. 
• What are Sookshma Dashas and Prana Dashas? SD and 
PRD (Prana Dasha) are simply the narrowed down version 
of the time period. If Jupiter is a 15 year period, the AD in 
Jupiter is a 2.5 year long period, PD is a 5-6 month long 
period, SD is a week long period, and then PD shows the 
date itself. 
Who uses MD-PD system? There are few astrologers that use 
these, and yes, it's not easy to predict the exact time of the event, at 
least not for me. It will probably take me another 20 years to 
master the SD and PD system. Do you need to know this right 
now? No. As a beginner you will be perfectly okay with the first

33
three cycles but if you want to be known as a guaranteed 
astrologer, then SD and PD will have to be mastered. 
• Varshphal Chart: 
I have not touched upon this part of astrology on my youtube 
channel yet but I will be discussing a lot of things on it. This is a 
yearly chart that is created by looking at the position of the Sun 
and Moon. When the Sun and Moon are the exact same distance in 
the same sign, same degrees, as they were when you were born, 
during that exact moment every year the chart is casted. This 
concept is known as Tithi Udday. 
This chart can show what will be the focal point in your life, will it 
be marriage, relationship, career, wealth, family, property, health, 
travel etc. 
The simple way to study the chart is see which "day" the chart is 
casted; was it a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday etc.. all the way to 
Sunday. Who is the lord of that day then see the placement of that 
planet in the chart. 
Sunday - Sun
Monday - Moon
Tuesday - Mars
Wednesday - Mercury

34
Thursday - Jupiter
Friday - Venus
Saturday - Saturn
2. You need to see where the ascendant lord of this chart is sitting; 
this will show the focus point for the native. 
3. Look at which house the mahadasha planet is sitting in. This 
will show how the MD planet will manifest that particular year for 
the position it originally rules in your birth chart.

35
Planetary Meaning:
This chapter will explain how each planet will effect your mind 
during it's mahadashas and what you can expect during their 
period. 
Sun MD of 6 years: When a person runs into a Sun MD many 
things change within a person's personality, persona and soul. The 
basic point is that the Sun wants to put the native in an 
authoritative position or come into contact with authoritative 
people including government officials. In this period things related 
to the father suddenly come to the forefront including family 
lineages. The Sun is our confidence, prestige and power; but all 
this can also be reversed depending upon the sun's condition. If  
the Sun is in Aries, Leo, Sagittarius, or Capricorn the person will 
find themselves in the positive side of the dasha. The main theme 
of the Sun is the boost of ego and pride. One feels close to their 
homeland and to issues of social well fair and politics of their 
home country. There is a need to service the public during this 
period.

36
In Sun MD, or any MD for that matter, you must look at each 
divisional chart when predicting about a certain area of life. If you 
want to see whether the sun is really good, really bad or neutral for 
the native regarding career affairs then look at the D10 chart and 
the Sun's position therein. In matters of children look at the D7 
chart. Regarding marriage and spiritual progress look at D9 and 
D20 chart.  If there is an issue regarding property look at the D16 
chart.  For wealth, look to the D2 chart. If the Sun is well placed in 
70% of the charts and ill in 30% of the divisional charts then it’s 
MD will be quite good for the native even if it's debilitated in the 
rashi chart. Understand that a debilitated Sun in the main rashi 
chart shows how we react to certain things. Debilitated Sun at 20 
degrees in the ascendant will give low confidence and lots of doubt 
within a person, but since Sun is exalted in the D9 chart, matters 
related to marriage and relationship will actually fair well. Just 
because we feel low about ourselves during a 6 year period of the 
Sun, doesn't mean its all bad.  We still end up getting some 
benefits from other aspects of life which are seen through 
divisional charts. In a bad Sun period the father or father like 
figures might pass away if in the D12 chart the Sun is badly 
placed… Or the father may fall ill or might get laid off; many 
things can happen. Yet you as an individual may be getting 
progress in your life because your Sun might be exalted in the D10 
chart and well placed in a kendra. 
Moon MD of 10 years: Moon MD is all about emotions. In its 10 
year period one becomes more sensitive, receptive, emotional, and 
closer to home. Issues or things related to the Mother and 
motherhood also become important, even for a man. In this period 
one is emotionally closer to family, home, and becomes more 
needy of creating a family. No matter what the person’s career, 
even a President of a country, they would be more involved in 
"domestic" affairs than foreign affairs. Most people who live in 
foreign lands and go through the time period of the Moon tend to 
become closer to home and homeland and may even get home 
sick. I remember in all my antar dashas of the Moon when I was

37
away in New York, I missed my home in California. I wanted to 
be near my family and friends and couldn't stand the concrete 
jungle. This is the time when a man or woman wants to create a 
family, home, and serve the mother. Moon being the karaka of 
travel can also cause one to do quite a bit of traveling due to 
emotional fulfillment. 
Moon MDs can also show psychological matters coming to the 
surface including depression or perhaps suicidal thoughts if the 
Moon is severally damaged in the horoscope. When the Moon is 
damaged anything related to it can suffer. This is why there are 
two sides to each MD. But the same Moon if coming up in the 
MD, AD, PD, SD, or PRD will give the same results as the MD. 
No matter what the cycle is, the Moon will give the same results as 
per his condition in the horoscope. 
Mars MD of 7 years: The Mars MD of 7 years makes a person 
aggressive, competitive, face obstacles, and defeat those obstacles 
while at the same time the person will be dealing with issues 
related to brothers and real estate. One's discipline also rises during  
a Mars MD if Mars is strong. A person becomes extremely 
ambitious and in need to win in every opportunity. Such patterns 
can also cause great frustration and anger at times as patience is 
very low in the person. The need to take risk or in risky 
investments also becomes the shining issue. Whether in youth or in 
old age one also loves to compete in sports and do physical 
exercises. Mars is all about attaining power and things for survival. 
As a solider Mars simply wants to accumulate things that will help 
him keep going in rough times. In Mars MD people also usually 
spend more money than other MDs. They feel like they must have 
things to protect them; whether it's buying guns, knives, land, or 
simply basic clothing and food. 
If Mars is in the 3rd, 6th, or 12th house then one will be getting 
into quarrels and fights with enemies and be part of a bad group. 
When Mars is active one tends to have fire within them which can

38
also lead to a “short fuse”, as in anger. This can be especially so if 
Mars is in pitta dosha, as in too much fire energy. This is a great 
time for people who want to join the Navy, Army, or Air Force. 
Rahu MD of 18 Years: Now here is the planet of misdirection, 
disillusion, impulsiveness, unnecessary fear, and extravagance. 
Rahu is mainly known as a natural malefic planet. Rahu is all 
about taking the native into a direction he or she didn't choose but 
by creating a mirage which shows the destiny. A person wanting to 
be a successful financial broker may end up doing things illegally 
even though he or she didn't intend to, but this is hardly the case 
unless Rahu creates an arishta yoga (yoga of misfortune).  Most of 
the time Rahu MD makes a person innovative, original, and doing 
things outside the box. The energy of Rahu makes a person want to 
break rules and expand to new horizons. This also brings great 
needs for lavish and material wealth. One is attracted to cars, 
motorcycles, big houses and everything big. Rahu is like Jupiter, 
where Jupiter expands Rahu explodes. Imagine a balloon slowly 
being blown up by a mouth…but Rahu is inflating that balloon in 
less than a second. This shows sudden things and sudden events 
occurring in the Rahu time period. The native may run into snakes, 
reptiles, and any creatures that have snake like movement. A belly 
dancer is ruled by Rahu with their snake like twists and movement 
of the waste. 
No matter who it is, whenever someone comes out of Rahu MD 
they feel like they were in some dense fog, driving around without 
really knowing where they were going. They were paying their 
bills, doing their work, taking care of the family but it was all a 
blur. A person is not themselves because there is this eclipse upon 
them like black magic. They simply follow the instructions of this 
smoky ghost. But material success, when it comes, comes in a 
huge package. Rahu has the ability to make a beggar into a 
billionaire. With the nodes of the moon you do not know where 
you're going even if you think you know. It's like going into a

39
foreign country and driving with an expert, you may think they are  
an expert but they might be taking you somewhere to rob you. 
Rahu mostly benefits those who want to stay and live in the 
illusion of maya. The more you seek spirituality, the more you will 
be lost, and it will be further away from you; unless Rahu is 
conjunct the 9th lord in moksha houses or creating a yoga of 
spirituality and moksha. 
Jupiter MD of 16 years: Most of the time you will hear that 
Jupiter MD is all about happiness, prosperity, wealth, and 
receiving fame in life. This is far from the truth. Jupiter is like any 
other planet. Its qualities and results of MD depends upon its 
condition, the house it rules, the sign it's in and the nakshatra its 
placed in, including all the aspects and conjunctions. But mainly 
what Jupiter does in its MD is it makes a person too optimistic 
about life and circumstances, makes them feel inspired and hopeful 
about the future. No matter what the results are or how bad the 
results are the person maintains hope of a better tomorrow in 
Jupiter MD. Now, most of the time you will see people get 
children, marriage, travel, and gain of friends in the MD of Jupiter 
because Jupiter is the karaka of 2nd, 5th, 9th, and 11th house. The 
native will also feel like a teacher, director, or wise-man. They feel 
they have something to give to the world. This is the period which 
most people find spiritual mentors and teachers in their life. 
This is the MD that makes a person far more faithful, religious, 
spiritual, and conservative if Jupiter is rightly placed. They feel 
like they are unbeatable and unstoppable. Reality seems to be a 
bed of roses even if the person has less than a dollar in their 
pocket. They know something will come up and will save them at 
the end. The person will find himself amongst people who will 
also act like they are teachers even if they are friends. It's an 
overall positive period filled with mixed emotions if Jupiter's 
placement is mixed. One mostly attains or likes to attain 
philosophical knowledge than a MBA or PhD, this is something 
that usually happens in Mercury MD, which we will discuss later.

40
But Jupiter is more about attaining the principles of living life and 
knowing the soul's desire. A person can go to jail in a time period 
of Jupiter but they will still have that great optimism and hope of 
living a better life tomorrow, instead of someone going through 
our next MD.
Saturn MD of 19 years: Now here is a planet for discussion. This 
is a planet that might be the most misunderstood planet in the 
astrological science. When Saturn comes to play in your life for 19 
years one thing you will quickly notice about yourself is that your 
sense of humor is getting lost, you no longer laugh at the same 
jokes, funny movies as much as they interest you they just can't 
seem to make you laugh and you are suddenly Mr. Serious 
Business. Everything is about the practical and realistic approach 
to live with constant work. Saturn in astronomical perspective is 
the most beautiful thing to look at in the sky but from the 
astrological perspective it's dry, dreary and dead. It brings fear and 
anxiety within a person. I remember doing a consultation of 
someone whose Saturn MD started a week before and on the 2nd 
day of the MD he ended up in the ER due to panic attack. But what 
Saturn really does is it makes you see the world as it is, it makes 
you see things as an “old Wiseman”. You feel and become old, 
mature, and sluggish. Life becomes more about taking care of the 
necessary work and doing the duty you were supposed to do. 
Saturn is about service and duty, and no matter when it comes up 
in your life you will be called to perform a duty. This can range 
from having responsibilities of family, children, people working 
under you, or simply serving the government. Most U.S. 
Presidents became presidents during their Saturn MD, especially 
Barak Obama in his second term. If you notice, he looks more 
older, mature, wise and is taking slower and wiser decisions. 
Saturn slows the person down in their approach to life. 
But Saturn will not stop you from reaching your goal. Saturn is all 
about work and being a workaholic and if you have a goal and 
passion then Saturn will do whatever it takes to make you achieve

41
that goal. In order to achieve any goal one needs discipline, 
organization, and structure; everything that Saturn represents. 
Saturn can also bring some of the joyful moments like the birth of 
children, marriage, or success in finances and wealth. This is 
especially true when Saturn receives the aspect of the 2nd, 5th, 7th, 
9th, or 11th lords and especially Jupiter. Saturn is like any other 
planet, if conjunct or aspected by a certain other planet, Saturn will 
also give results related to that planet and the houses it might rule. 
Saturn in reality is the karaka (signifier/producer) of the 6th, 8th, 
10th, and 12th houses. These represent, respectively: work and 
illness (the 6th), transformation and taxes (the 8th), career (the 
10th), and moksha (the 12th). This is why no matter which age 
Saturn MD comes into play, it makes a person realize the value of 
life, their duty to the government, achievements of career, and 
realizing that there is a more peaceful place after death. 
Mercury MD of 17 years: The Mercury MD of 17 years comes 
after a grueling 19 year period of Saturn where you were serious, 
without much sense of humor or playtime, and all you wanted to 
do was, work, work, work. You wanted to be serious, but now you 
are back to your optimism as you once had in Jupiter period, as 
that is what Mercury MD is about. In the time period of Mercury 
the person becomes overly verbal and extremely eager to attain 
knowledge, this is why in Mercury periods you will see many 
people wanting to go back to school to attain higher education. 
They also feel like Jupiter where one wants to become a teacher or 
become a consultant of some sort. This period of Mercury is all 
about communication as one feels like they need to write, blog, 
publicly speak, or simply go towards a sales and marketing 
direction. In this 17 year period the person will finally be able to 
enjoy life to the fullest. Most of the time a person will never have 
the worst time in a Mercury time period even if Mercury is 
debilitated because Mercury is that one planet that is able to adjust 
to any sign, conjunction or aspect. Mercury is a curious planet that 
will always enjoy exploring the sign it sits in. The person feels

42
young, youthful and many who run the dasa of Mercury and Rahu 
in older age get interested in face lifts, plastic surgeries and face 
creams. 
In the time period of Mercury, business and management become 
the forefront of a person's life. They are curious about money, 
management of money, budgeting and especially announcing 
things. Marketing and sales becomes a big part of the individual's 
personality. Even a professor will be interested in marketing him 
or herself in this period to grow their bank balance. Can Mercury 
give a hard time though, in its period? Yes, it can, but the person 
will still be able to adjust to the time. 
Ketu MD of 7 years: This is the MD that many worry about more 
than even Saturn. Why is this MD so feared? This is a time period 
of isolation, meditation, spirituality, interest in the occult, and exile 
from material wealth and relationships. Ketu is feared due to our 
own attachment to the Maya of Narayana. We are so attached to 
our relationships, wealth, and bank account that we have a hard 
time facing the truth that nothing we possess will last. Ketu simply 
shows us that. It shows us nothing is here forever except your own 
divine eternal soul. I do many consultations with people who are 
suddenly finding interest in astrology, yoga, meditation, and feel 
isolated from work and marriage, due to the MD of Ketu. Most 
who have Ketu in the 1st, 8th or 12th house also experience 
unusual psychic phenomenon through dreams and unusual 
situations. This is the period when one has to look within for 
everything, including wealth. The real wealth, as they say, lies 
within, and Ketu is the light that shows us that. 
One of the biggest misconceptions about Ketu MD is that it never 
gives wealth which is far from the truth. Ketu gives wealth, but 
that wealth doesn't effect the native's source of joy, happiness or 
ego. Most of the time they do not even care how much they make 
in this time period, but if Ketu is becoming part of a Raj or Dhan 
yoga then Ketu will give wealth. Ketu conjunct the kendra lord in

43
a kendra can give a sudden promotion. Ketu conjunct the 2nd, 5th, 
9th or 11th lord in trikon houses will give wealth. But wealth and 
money is a far deeper subject that requires not just yogas but 
mathematical calculations of Ashtakavarga and Binashatakavarga. 
But if you want Ketu to give you health, wealth and joy then one 
must do meditation at least one hour a day in Ketu period. 
Venus MD of 20 years: Venus MD gets everyone excited, it's the 
planet of beauty, love and luxury. Venus is also the planet of arts, 
culture and cinema. In the 20 year period of Venus the native will 
feel extremely joyful, playful, and most of all passionate. Passion 
transforms into creativity. This is the time when even a tax 
accountant feels like they need to get a hobby of crafting and 
sowing. Venus is also the karaka of currency as in cash money. 
You will see many people leaning towards currency trading and 
cash business. The native would buy expensive items which are 
highly luxurious. Instead of buying a regular phone, the person 
would want the latest smart phone with all the accessories. If the 
native never wore brand name cloths or shoes then in the Venus 
MD they will be more inclined towards such items. Mainly its love 
and relationships that become important including what you're 
passionate about. This time period can be excellent if you have a 
passion in life and the same period can become torturous if you 
have no interest or no motivation in life. Venus is our devotion to 
someone or something, and if one is not at least devoted to God 
then life will feel empty. I have seen this too many times when 
people go through this period and feel null and lethargic. This is 
due to the fact that Venus is a princess and a princess wants to get 
things with ease and get things when she wants, how she wants. 
Venus periods feel like “Someone just get me a glass of water, I 
don't want to get up”. The periods of Venus that can bring hardship 
is when Venus is a "functional malefic" planet and is not in it's 
own sign or in a friendly alignment. But, even if Venus is a FM 
(Functional Malefic), it can suddenly give great results for you  if 
you are either in the field of arts, culture, healing or hospitality.

44
You can't be doing work in IT if it's not your passion and you are 
only in it to get a raise, and get projects during Venus period. 
There is a simple motto for Venus MD, "Where energy flows, is 
where prosperity flows". Too many people are without interest and 
passion in life. That is due to the position of their Venus, and only 
in such cases the person is unmotivated, and not willing to do 
much to make things happen. Here is a trick, check for Venus' 
position in the D60 chart to truly find it's result, and remember to 
check for all yogas, cancelations, and avasthas in the D60 chart. 
Some small secrets I never discussed with people. Glancing at the 
D60 shows the real value of a planet.

45
Mahadashas Through the Houses:  
Whatever is written in this chapter is without the consideration that 
a planet in your particular horoscope or someone else's might be 
receiving malefic or benefic aspects, or might be conjunct malefic 
or benefic planets or in its placement in divisional charts which 
give the final determination of how the timing of the planet will 
be.  But this chapter will give you a very good idea of the things 
the native will deal with on a foundational level. 
The Sun Through the Houses: 
The Sun in the 1st house:

46
Sun MDs with the Sun in the 1st house will not only give results of 
the Sun in the 1st house, but also things of the 7th house will be 
influenced. Here the Sun period will make the native gain 
reorganization, feel extremely proud and egotistical, while also 
giving their father fame in the 6 year period. If the Sun is well 
placed here, not only the native but the father will also benefit 
during this time. Things related to health and self-image will 
become important but also the person may be inclined towards 
dominating their spouse, business partner and all the other people 
they come across. They will order others around and expect 
respect from the other people for their needful deed. This period 
can bring the native across other authoritative figures and can 
bring situations related to marriage if the period occurs between 
18-42 years of age. Naturally the person finds interest towards 
politics, government and dealing in temples. 
Sun in the 2nd house:

47
This type of Solar period will bring attention to family affairs, 
assets, and the father's property. The native will try to take the 
authority over their family lineage and assets. The speech of the 
native will be very authoritative. They will suddenly command and 
demand things from family and their near and dear ones. The 
earning source for the native will also be affected as they will 
either take up the family business or will want to do business for 
the family. I have seen people become heads of banks and 
financial institutions during their prominent period when Sun MD 
operated. 
The Sun aspecting the 8th house shows that one will be 
discovering treasure, taking authority over joint assets with their 
spouse, and things related to the spouse's family will also become 
the main focus. Depending upon the Sun’s dignity it will either be 
a great time or a roller coaster. The Sun will also try to expose 
hidden assets, secrets, and dealings with tax issues. One's father 
will be interested in taking up life insurance during this time or  
may deal with wills & estates. The Sun in this position either 
brings honor from in-laws or one can be humiliated. 
Sun in the 3rd house:

48
In this MD of the Sun the person will be busy with the affairs of 
siblings, sales, marketing, and in putting more effort than before 
into their professional life. One will find this time period full of 
information and they will take the center stage to announce such 
information. But the Sun being the hot planet of ego also shows  
that one will try to dominate and rule over their younger siblings 
lives. They will also take a leadership role when it comes to team 
settings at work. There will be short distance travels for the native 
and their father if the father is still alive. One will find many 
friends in this period who will boost the native's ego. 
The Sun's aspect on the 9th house shows one will take an 
authoritative position over their father, or they will try to be the 
teacher themselves and eagerly want to preach to a crowd like a 
leader. They will find a great boost of the ego through higher 
education, or learning spiritual and philosophical knowledge. They 
will want to attain a head position in higher educational places for  
the ego boost. If the Sun is in a satwik sign the native will truly 
deserve to be a leader.

49
Sun in the 4th house: 
Sun periods in the 4th house will bring sudden interest in politics, 
home, issues of the mother, and in dealing with father issues 
within the home. There will be great ego battles between the native 
and  their father or mother. The person will always try to dominate 
their mother in this period and will try to gain access to parental 
property. This is going to be a period where the native will either 
shy away a lot from public life or they will be extremely popular 
with the people of their "homeland" only. In this period the native 
will be extremely interested in political affairs of the government 
including political affairs of the home. I have seen many get 
interested in wanting to become IAS, IPS and IIS officers. They 
may want to join the army or marines. 
The Sun aspecting the 10th house is what shows sudden interest in 
leadership areas of careers in government or the private sector. 
One will either take another authorities power at their work place 
or will leave their work place to be their own leader, but either 
way, one usually loves public service. The native's public persona 
will rise along with the reputation of their father.  In the 6 year

50
period one will mainly be focused on being admired for their 
highly spiritual and philosophical leadership. 
Sun in the 5th house: 
In this 6 year period of the Sun being activated in the 5th house, 
one will be mainly focused on children, if they have children, or on 
their students. They will find that they want to take leadership 
roles in a field of sports, political, or entertainment businesses. If 
one is in school they will find that their ego and confidence will 
develop more through what they learn and in expressing 
themselves creatively. The Sun here gives a strong interest in 
political science, history, and subjects like “green energy”. They 
take authority over children. If one tries to have a child in the Sun 
period they most likely get a son or a very dominating off-spring. 
The Sun's aspect on the 11th house shows that one will gain 
through their knowledge and they will dominate their network 
circles and elder siblings. They will also dominate their son or 
daughter in-law through their knowledge and charm.  Through 
authorities and government one can increase their investments.

51
Sun in the 6th house: 
 
In the MD of the Sun in the 6th house one is inclined towards 
public service and especially to authorities in government. This 
period of the Sun will show that one finds tremendous interest in 
serving the poor, helping the needy and dealing with illnesses of  
the father or themselves. They will finally tackle their enemies in 
this period and the solar brightness will expose who their enemies 
are.  The person will suddenly find that their ego and pride comes 
from public service and serving humanity in general. 
The Sun's aspect on the 12th house shows that one wants to attain 
spiritual knowledge and enlightenment through their work. They 
want to do something that will fulfill them spirituality and not 
monetarily. The native also wants to travel to distant places for self 
fulfillment and for government purposes. 
Sun in the 7th house:

52
The Sun's period in the 7th house will mainly be focused on other 
people, marriage, partnerships, and ego battles that come up while 
interacting with other people. No matter what the sign placement is 
of the Sun here, one will always have heated battles with the 
opposition, their business partner, and spouse. This is mainly due 
to the fact that the Sun is setting at the time of your birth. The 7th 
house is the house of the setting Sun, and here the Sun is losing it's 
power and positive quality. What happens here is the person either 
shies away from public affairs or may have an ego battle with the  
public/masses. But one will always brighten the positive quality of 
their spouse due to the Sun's bright rays. 
The Sun's aspect on the ascendant shows one is trying to perfect 
their image in this MD through other people and their spouse. 
They love to overtake other people to make themselves look great. 
One is quite attentive to the health of the body and its look during 
this period and wants their image to be that of a king. A weak Sun 
will show that one relies on their external beauty and material 
wealth to develop their ego. 
Sun in the 8th house:

53
The Sun MD period will show undiscovered truths about their 
personality and their hidden enemies. Extensions of their self will 
be involved in secret projects, occult interests, and investigating 
hidden truths. There could be a discovery of treasure left by the 
father or government. This period brings great transformation into 
one’s personality, soul and ego. They either find their hidden ego 
and passion during this time or their father may try to hurt their 
ego and dig a 6 feet grave for it… this is why such people shy 
away from public life during this time. This is the time to look 
inwards and shine the inner light outwards. 
The solar aspect on the 2nd house shows that one will look to their 
family as a source of light, joy, and happiness. Family assets are 
also attained during this time period but mainly the person wants 
to experience the lighter side of life through their family which 
becomes the source of exterior image. One earns or throws away 
money given by the government or father depending upon the 
condition of the Sun in the birth and divisional charts. 
Sun in the 9th house:

54
The Sun's period of 6 years here will provide great benefit, luck 
and prosperity to the father. Great involvements of the father in 
one's spiritual and religious progress could occur. They may find 
themselves becoming an authoritative figure within their religious 
roots or government. There is great involvement with religious 
pilgrimages during this time with or without the father. Their rank 
in spiritual and educational fields increases while they find overall 
good times in all areas of life. One will also be curious about 
becoming a leader in common society or local society; or with 
becoming the head of some educational institution.  
The Sun's aspect on the 3rd house shows that one finds that it's 
their duty to preach and teach their younger siblings and friends. 
They want to give authoritative direction to other people by what 
they have learned in their life. Sun periods will show gaining 
kingship over information becomes important, as well as short 
distance travel. 
Sun in the 10th house:

55
Sun MDs in this house will show great interest in leadership 
positions in private or government sectors. One wants to be 
respected and admired by other "authorities". Their career 
brightens up and brings fame from all around the world, if not 
from the local community. The Sun being at its highest position 
here in the sky shows one's ego is well attained and doesn't have to 
be over powered to show its power. This is a natural leader who 
doesn't have to do too much to have the other know they are in 
charge. One finds great positive attention from the government if  
the Sun is nicely placed, and may also become executives at such 
times. In youthful years this can show great achievements in 
education and being the leader of their class. 
The Sun's aspect on the 4th house show sudden love for the 
homeland, military, mother, and childhood friends. They somehow 
overtake authority within their home and express great amounts of 
positive leadership skills. They also find that they have to solve 
political issues within the family or especially the mother's side. 
Sun in the 11th house:

56
Sun in the 11th house will show a period of great networking. One 
will be meeting and greeting lots of authoritative senior boss-like 
figures. They will be receiving recognition for their achievements 
if the native is working in government or working a business with 
the father. There are gains that can come in this period from the 
government; as in someone getting a huge tax return on previous 
taxes, or receiving a grant from the government. In such periods 
the father himself will get tremendous amounts of gain and 
prestige if the Sun is well placed in the horoscope. 
The Sun's aspect on the 5th house shows that this period will have 
them taking control of their children's lives or their own education. 
The Solar light brightens up the 5th house with its illuminating 
rays. The native takes an authoritative position on their education 
and fellow students, or one gets interested in politics. But what this 
aspect really shows is that father of the native will be greatly 
involved with one's educational decisions and creative self 
expression. 
Sun in the 12th house:

57
Sun in the 12th house will show in its MD the evolution of one's 
spiritual senses. Here the ego will be hurt and lost, and through this 
will discover its true self. This is known as a marna karka position 
of the Sun where the king goes to lose his kingship. This time 
period for the native will take them into isolation and towards 
discovering their soul which is without the jacket of ego. One finds 
themselves going to foreign places to discover who they are. The 
native will also be dealing with foreign government affairs 
including corporate executive affairs. The father of the native, if 
alive, will either taken foreign trips or may have to exile due to his 
own reputation. If the Sun is in a sattwic sign the native will 
pursue spiritual activities. 
The Sun's aspect on the 6th house shows one will want to serve 
others after knowing their ego is an illusion, the native wants to 
become a true leader for the unprivileged people. Their is a great 
need for public service and service to the higher lordship. But 
depending upon the Sun's sign condition one will expose their 
enemies through which a war may start, or the native will destroy 
enemies after shedding the light upon them. Since this is a 
marnakarka position of the Sun, the native may take a leadership

58
role in a malefic organization in a secretive manner. A well placed 
or exalted Sun will become a spiritual leader in foreign lands. 
The Moon through the houses: 
Moon in the 1st house:

59
Moon MDs of 10 years here will make the native emotional 
towards their body, look and health. They will emotionally connect 
with their image into the world, but also the mother of the native 
will be involved in the health and wellbeing of the native to some 
level. If not the mother then a mother like figure. The mind now is 
focused on one’s own self-being and one's own health. The Moon 
being the karaka of the 4th house shows one will deal with things 
of the home and mother throughout the time period. But the 
Moon's sign placement is extremely important. The Moon really 
behaves like its sign placement. But here one simply wants to be a 
mother to everyone. 
The Moon aspecting the 7th house shows one wants to emotionally 
connect with everyone, including their spouse. Their mind feels 
balanced when they hang out with other people and have an 
emotional connection with anyone and everyone. At this time, 
having any kind of disagreements or emotional set backs will 
hinder the health of the native. Since the ascendant represents the 
head, the 10 years will be filled with emotional ups and downs due 
to integrating with other people. 
Moon in the 2nd house:

60
The Moon in the 2nd house will show that for 10 years the native 
will be emotionally connected to the family; whether its negative 
or positive will depend upon the condition of the Moon. They 
would especially want to engage with family members. The 10 
years that the Moon is operating in the native will deal with 
collecting and hoarding resources rather than spending because a 
mother always saves for its young ones, so naturally one wants to 
hoard assets for security purposes. There is great interest in arts, 
culture, heritage, an


...[PDF truncated for import]