[Music]
So ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our
video of Venus in the 9inth house as
your atma karaka. As in what happens
when Venus controls the highest degree
in your particular birth chart and sits
in the ninth house known as the
atmaakarta. If you want to know if Venus
is your atma kartaka or not, you can go
to kas astrology.com under shop section
where you'll find on option six my
report along with all the other uh
options beyond number six. Okay. So
Venus is in the ninth house as your atma
kakara and remember atakara is here to
teach you a lesson. You're here to burn
that karma of that atma. That's why it
is the charara atma karaa cuz real atma
karaa the soul significator is the sun
right but then certain planets become a
temporary soul significator in your
chart based on that degree now sun can
also be that and I've already made a
video on those as well but here you have
to learn the lessons of Venus in the
9inth house the very first thing that we
see that this
person benefits from the father okay
whenever father will you will see
whenever father will put money into this
person's work or business advises G or
or gives this person advice they benefit
greatly but here's the crux of
it this person if they were to give
advice okay or take advice from the
father okay those advices
backfire for example if you told your
father about investing his money into
something and if he does it and he loses
money, he will always blame you for
it. And this is why you will see like
most of the advice that you
give okay to the father they
backfire or they get bring you blames.
The thing is it's supposed to bring you
blames. Then what advice the father
gives may also not work for you. Okay.
Now father could be an excellent
bellfisher. Okay. This is why certain
positions like when a parent is giving
their child you know advice oh you
should become a doctor or is officer you
know you know you need to go into
engineering school they don't realize
that's like the worst option for the
child and you force the child into
attaining that education and they're
miserable and they have to pretty much
change their career do they do something
completely different than what they got
their education and now it was destined
because in their chart the relationship
between Saturn Venus and uh Mercury was
in such a place that a person will
not be benefiting from their education
cuz there are those placements. So yeah,
father just played a role, parents just
played a role in that. Venus in the
ninth house will also show that this
person is here to learn lessons so they
can pass on those lessons as a teacher,
teacher, consultant, counselor, adviser,
but most importantly a strategist.
Venus in the ninth house is a
strategist. Somebody who helps you
strategize. See, I can teach
you. For example, I'll teach you how to
look at a birth chart. I'll teach you
how to study the
dasha. Okay? You have to uh do this then
this. Now, the strategist is somebody
who goes a little bit beyond that. They
said, "Okay, you have this person's
chart. Now look at this. You have to do
this first and this first and that
first." So, I taught you something and I
sent you on your way. A strategist will
be let me show
you and tricks to how to look at this
thing and they will sit with you and
they say this is how you will do this.
Or for example, I showed you this is how
money is made in the stock market go.
But the strategist actually shows you
the ropes that hey this is exactly what
you need to do. This is where you need
to put the money in because this is
where your this thing happening cuz
they're going private. They're going
into your own private world. A teacher
is not going to be going a professor
doesn't go into the world of each
student. Okay? even though they
should. But a strategist will sit with
you and they'll be like, "Okay, so
what's the concern here? What is
happening here?" Well, the re what I
figured out is that the reason why
you're not making money in your
investment is because you have this and
this issue happening in this account and
you have this business that is losing
money here. You have to get rid of this,
get rid of that. Okay? So, they're
actually showing you that's a strategy.
That's what Venus is more than the guru.
Guru gives you the
wisdom knowing that you will understand
the strategy yourself. But a strategist
then shows you breaks that
down. And Venus especially shows the
more and you will see this first this
person
will may even reject
religion becomes an
atheist only as an
atmaaka but then they have to learn
certain lessons in
life they go such downhill in life that
they show up to the doorsteps of the
church of Christ or to the mandonder of
Ra Hanuman or Shiva and they're like
that's it. If you can just help me out,
I will believe in you for rest of my
life and then something works out and
from that moment
onwards they can even surpass the most
theist individual out there. Why?
Because they had to learn the lesson. So
atma kaka perfects you in the house that
the planet is sitting in. is going to
perfect you to become a great father
especially if you're a male perfect you
to become a great teacher and gives you
the best wisdom because you go through
so much stuff early in life with this
Venus in the ninth that you start
attaining
wisdom whether it's about relationship
children career handling of the money
dealing with
politics you are you become a great
adviser okay also with Venus naturally
the skill of
art becomes very prominent. Both Venus
and moon in the ninth house we will see
such people do very well with paintings
and
arts and
Venus one of the things about Venus is
revival right Venus has the ability to
revive something. So you will see as
part of your atma karaaka's journey you
are supposed to revive something in your
lineage. Maybe for example your family
forgot their kulvi kil dvi or
kulva. Okay you get to find out this is
our kulva and you take the whole family
to do the prayer with the kulva.
you bring about you bring about that you
know resurgence of the devotion towards
the ancestor and what they did or you
bring you become a historian and you
discover some unknown secret bible that
the world has no idea
about so Venus is going to help you
revive something in the 9inth house this
is why Venus is the atma kak in the
9inth house revives a person's belief in
the
higher religion and god and culture and
ancestry. See, spirituality doesn't come
in this. That's the 12th
house. Here's what you grew up with. You
begin to value that. Like for example,
back in the days, you will watch a movie
where parents are really religious and
they follow all the things and the son
wants to go to Mumbai and make a name
for themselves and become rich and this
and that, right? Those used to be the
script. Now it's kind of like the
reverse. a person is leaving their
corporate job to become a farmer and
become devoted to God and yoga and
meditation right so that revival of
Venus
happens okay that's the theme now
overall the other thing as the atma
karaa Venus okay your bhy is not
yours okay your bhagya is not yours.
Your bhagya is that of the
spouse. Your luck in life. The one who
supposed to benefit is your
spouse. So for example, you make $2
million a year. You will see this person
will
have the duty to buy their spouse a
Rolls-Royce or buying their spouse a
Bentley and nice jewelry and taking him
to finest dinner. Now they enjoy
that but the main motivation is is that
spouse is to
enjoy your bhag happens by the spouse
and for the
spouse like certain placements show that
the reason why you're getting money not
because you worked hard and you deserve
this money. No, you were supposed to
work hard and get this money so these
other people can enjoy in your life.
For example, somebody becomes so wealthy
that they have their
um what do you call their housekeeper,
their servants in a nice little mansion
in the backside of their home. It's like
a beautiful mini
house. So God gave them money and all
the power and wealth so they can
actually hire this individual and give
them because they deserve it without
ever working. meaning they do a little
bit of work, but they're the king of all
the
servants. If the owner is driving a, you
know, Bugatti or
Rolls-Royce, the servant is driving a
Mercedes-Benz. So all of the time you
will see sometimes a usually yes person
can also enjoy things for themselves
only. That's why they're here. In this
case, it's not. In this case, you're
here to see the rise of your luck so the
spouse can enjoy or definitely uh if
let's say you're a male, some woman will
enjoy even if you're not
married. Okay, I'm not saying that this
is a position that is going to give you
marriage or you're destined to get
married with this Venus in the 9inth
house. No, but I'm saying that the luck
will increase and brings you things so
that person can enjoy.
Okay. And the other thing with Venus in
the 9inth house, the thing is the
patriarchal side of the
family as the
atma can push a marriage away for this
person. Meaning you get so engrossed
in the family
ties that the marriage suffer or the
spouse get fully engrossed with their
siblings. They're always telling
everything to their siblings. They're
always doing things to the siblings.
You're making the money. You're giving
to the spouse. Hopefully the spouse is
using is using it for themselves or for
the household, but that money is also
going to their sibling.
And so yes, the lesson is here uh is to
understand that compromise that you are
dealing with that why is my money going
here? Well, it's going here because it's
destined and if you're going to argue on
that then it's going to bring about that
separation.
But Venus again in in terms of like
luck bringing luck is an excellent
placement of Venus especially a person
who has to go far away to attain and
retain their
wealth and especially when Venus is the
atma kara in the 9inth house. A person
should have a safe in their home.
You should always keep a safe in your
home. Whether some jewelry is there,
some money is there, you should always
keep it. Where should you keep it? Well,
if Venus depends on the sign
though, okay? Usually it can be
uh towards the center of the house. But
if the sign is something else, then it
might become northeast, north, west,
southwest. Okay? So I can't really say
which direction it'll be. Okay. So
anyway guys this was my analysis of
Venus in the 9inth house and also I
forgot to mention the atmakara Venus in
the 9inth
house very important this person has the
strongest capacity to attain the higher
education postgrad
education and they will be able to go to
a very high caliber college especially
like IV league if Venus is with sun if
atmakara Venus is with Sun in the 9inth
house, you'll see this
person going to Harvard, Yale,
Stanford. Okay. So, anyway, this was
Ravius in the 9inth house. We'll see you
later. Bye-bye.
[Music]
So ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our
video Venus as the atma karaa in your
horoscope and today we're going to be
discussing Venus in the 11th house as
the atma karaa and as always if you do
not know if you have this particular
Venus what sign it's in what nakhatra
it's in along with all your astrological
details You can go to cares
astrology.com here where special you'll
find under shop section option six with
report and all my consultations. So
Venus in the 11th house in Aquarius or
not Aquarius sorry 11th house we don't
know if it's Aquarius Aries or Gemini
could be anything but see first of all
what is the atmakar atmakar is a planet
with the highest degree the one that is
closest to the 30th degree point which
could I don't know could be even 12° all
the other planets are below 12° but
Venus is the only one at 12° so it's
closest to that 30th degree point that's
the atmakarta that's the part of your
personality that's the part of your
unfinished desires and unfulfi and
unfinished duties that one has to
fulfill. So what is it with Venus in the
atma kak and the 11th house? Well the
the main the most simplest thing is this
one needs to fulfill their desires.
You are here to fulfill your desires.
This is the particular
Venus
that will show that
one finished their life with many things
that were unfinished.
Maybe you had a business that was just
about to get a big huge contract and you
passed away.
You were about to your your car was
coming at the same time which was a
luxury car because you were born in
1960s or 70s or something in your
previous life or not even born like
passed away but you were waiting for
your 64 Impala
right and also you were long-distance
relationship with someone they were
coming to see you and you were couldn't
wait to see them see whenever you create
these
desires oh my god God, I need this. I
want this. Now, when you pass away, now
it's like part of that string that has
to be fulfilled. They're like, "Okay,
you have this desire. We're going to
have to put this off for the next two
lives cuz you have to first finish these
two desires and karma and then you can
go back to that.
So, here Venus not only needs to finish
or or fulfill desires, but actually
understand this part. The more desires
you have, the more problems you get
because 11th house is a bad house.
Badakkesh, original bad.
So whenever you have too many desires,
you're going to get into too much
trouble. Why? Because not only let's say
you're trying to fulfill your desires in
this life. But then the problem is now
if they don't get finished now, you have
to take these particular desires of this
life and move them forward.
The thing about Venus is this.
Okay? Anything that makes your life
simply convenient, elegant and
beautiful. That's it. That is the desire
where a person can literally have a
studio apartment, but when you walk in,
it looks so much more neater and cleaner
than your 5,000 ft² home.
So, and then the other thing with Venus
in the 11th house, usually, especially
if you see this Venus being retrograde,
I mean, you're looking at a activist,
you're looking at even a nun, you're
looking at somebody who will go to like
Africa and all of these other countries
to kind of like just help out the kids,
help out the women, help out the people
there. Like what happens with Atamakarta
Venus, especially when it's retrograde,
that's a very special Venus. It's a very
special. Now imagine Venus has the
atmakara in the 11th house retrograde
and also in pushkra navam sha
can you imagine that or even pushkra
bhaga
I mean there's these all these little
different padillos of jotish but see
what happens with venus as the atma
karaa in Aquarius naturally a person
wants to kind of share their love and
experience with other people and help
them attain their shared love and
experience of life. Now retrograde Venus
becomes like a Venus on steroid.
Now it's no longer just about small type
of you know community. No they want to
achieve the love of the UN
like they they will be the ones that are
striving to become a civil rights
attorney for international law.
kind of like if you look at who's that
Oman
abidi I don't George Clooney's wife
right she's a human rights lawyer
aman abidi I don't know may I'm I'm
pronouncing it all wrong but that's the
type of person this person desires to be
they don't care to just share like
especially atma karaa Venus in the 11th
will give their money to others will
share what they have with others
Also, Venus in the 11th house as the
atma karka. It shows that especially in
a man's chart when the wife comes in,
that's when you start to kind of not
only just gain your confidence, but gain
yourself, gain your understanding of who
you are. You finally see like all the,
you know, veils in front of you get
clear
to see your path across the woods and
forest.
Okay. So, especially with the wife in
your life coming in, fulfillment of
desires become active. So, of course, if
you're 20, 25, maybe it could be doing
it depending upon what dasha and how
Venus is placed.
Okay? Like if Venus is the atma kartkas
with moon and Saturn I mean my god you
will have whatever money and whatever
things you want in life
you know or Venus is you know trying
from s Rahu or Jupiter
you'll get everything that you need
more than any everything but also the
thing is atma kara planet when
influenced by certain planets can lose
their ways
don't think every single cuz everybody
has an atmakara planet in their chart.
You think everybody has fulfilled that
duty of that planet? No.
So out of the 100% maybe the fulfilled
20% 80% is still to go. And now imagine
how many pending percentages out there
in the past. This is why they say
let go. Don't even focus on anything,
you know. Just just let it be. Sit under
a tree.
But you will not understand this until
you have the awakening in your senses of
God realization condalini awakening.
That's when you'll be like oh my god
this is my last 300 lives have been
holy smokes
like you literally understand it in your
consciousness. This is what I've been
doing lifetime after lifetime creating
these desires. So Venus's biggest lesson
here is controlling of the desires.
But it's it's easier said it's not going
to be controlled.
Okay? Unless you have like a
Venus which is exalted, you might be
able to control it.
But if it's like a retrograde Venus, if
it's like a Venus with a certain planet
or sign, I mean then even cuz look, even
Venus is retrograde, this person wants
to guess what their desire is going to
be like, I want to become a leader of UN
or create something bigger than UN and
then I want to feed the world and do
this and do so look what's happening.
They're creating this
collage of dreams
that are could most likely would be
passed on with them.
Okay. And of course with Venus in the
11th house, it shows that a woman in
your life will be very significant for
your success
for both men and women. You'll always be
like, "Wow, it's because of this manager
or this lady who did this for me.
gave me the stamp even that day I was
having such a bad day she gave me the
stamp and approval of visa and because
of her I'm here today as a multi
multi-millionaire
so a woman becomes very significant in
your life as the atma karaaka in the
11th house
okay
so and then the other thing that I
always tell people
with Venus in the 11th Um,
like I said, like I was saying, right?
Fulfill your desires.
Now, you must be thinking,
okay, I want to drive a Ferrari.
That's my dream.
Okay,
how can I do it? You tell me to fulfill
my desires.
I want a Ferrari. I have 500 in my bank
account. What are you talking about? So
that's not what I'm talking about when I
say fulfilled desires.
The way you start off is let's say
you're sitting right now you're working
and you suddenly had this craving to eat
a rava masala dosa
or you had craving to eat ka m and
garlic naan
from this corner food place that you
know and you're write you're working
you're typing you're writing something
but that craving is there and you're
like, "Well, I got to finish this
project by 1000 p.m. and then I have to
go to bed. That's in this. Forget it."
No.
That that desire that out of the entire
packadellos of desires that you have had
all day, that particular one desire that
stood out where you were craving, you
could taste it in your mouth, you get up
and go and eat. You fulfill that desire.
Because when you fulfill that desire,
Venus begins to dance and moves and
awakens.
So for example,
3 4 days later,
you saw somebody
with really uh nice shoes. You're like,
"My god, those shoes will look so good
on my suit."
And you can't stop thinking about it.
That's the type of desires I'm talking
about. Cuz we can have 50 different
desires in a day. But you're thinking
about, you're looking, what was those
shoes? Brown shoes with this strap and
this leather and this symbol. What was
that shoe? When you get to that point
and you know that, okay, I have a great
work. I'm I'm making money. Yeah, I'm
going to get these shoes. So, what are
you doing? You're fulfilling that
desire. So, as that desire is being
fulfilled slowly and slowly, all these
different desires that are you're able
to accommodate and you're able to
accomplish, yeah, one day you'll be
walking into a Ferrari dealership and
getting yourself a Ferrari.
That's how this works with this Venus.
Okay,
so anyway guys, this was our Venus in
the 11th house. Remember, I'm filled
with subscribers. No longer need
subscribers. If you want to be a
subscriber here on Car's channel, fill
out an application. I will or my
assistant will review it and we'll do a
Zoom meeting and if you think we're
you're a good match, then you can
subscribe and hit the subscribe button.
Uh but it'll be about three rounds of
interviews. All right. Thank you.
[Music]
So ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our
video of Venus in the 12th house as your
atamaka is in what happens when Venus
becomes the atmaka as in the planet with
the highest degree closest to the 30th
degree point.
And if you don't know which planet is
your atmaka, you can just go to cars
astrology.com here under shop section
option six. When you get the report, you
will see which planet has the highest
degree, which one is the atmaka, kharka,
dharaka, all that information is in
there along with my consultation and of
course my academy where I've uploaded my
uh Virgo course now blank chart
prediction with age activation.
Next is Libra. Hopefully today or
tomorrow I'll film the videos and then
Friday I'll release it. Um
so Venus in the 12th house as the atmaka
what can we say this is a um
this is a very unusual placement to
define.
You know why? Because Venus is
undefinable
in this particular position
cuz on one end
it's like the individual soul
has checked out.
Okay.
The individual soul is willing to
kneel and bow
to the supreme to the ultimate.
Okay.
like eventually this atma kara Venus
if it's not afflicted by malefific if
it's not at a certain degree
okay
because depending on the sign at a
certain degree yes what it it can trap
you meaning
like imagine
an investment banker
somebody who's making a lot of money but
at the same time they're trying to make
the most money because they're empty
inside.
They don't know. They they can't figure
out why this joy is not coming. See,
when you see celebrities on the red
carpet smiling and dancing and joking,
you don't know how much they're bounded
by the chains
that are beneath the ground.
Why do you think so many celebrities
have like drug issue, alcohol issue,
addiction issue,
going to jail for DUI.
So don't look at those things.
There's emptiness within. And the
emptiness can only be fulfilled by
surrender.
When a person surrenders themselves to
the supreme and this is the worst
position,
the worst position for an atheist.
Oh, this is going to play such mind
screw up games with you.
This is the worst position for an
atheist.
You can be an atheist free world but if
there's no surrender to the supreme and
this has to come from within you have to
go through certain things and you have
to witness certain miracles or some
things unusual out of the ordinary for
you to really understand this part to
believe in that and the other on the
other hand atma Venus
clearly shows me here that the person
has already experienced the best
marriage, the best partnership in past
life. So this life they're simply here
to finish small little karmas off with
people
like you got your soulmate, you got your
twin fil flame, but now certain people
you may have promised maybe some
girlfriend, boyfriend you broke up with
just because it just you guys are ran
out of love. Maybe you just come to deal
with that. So it's a small little thing
because what happens here
post marriage your interest in the
concept of marriage leaves
in unionship leaves why because you try
suddenly understand and that's why
marriage is actually important here you
see it's a double-edged sword
it's a double knock door
or knob door
that in order for you To understand the
divine truly, you got to understand one
thing. Marriage is not about
love
like somebody to love and somebody
companionship. Marriage is much deeper
of a process.
Okay? Especially if you understand the
Vic Hindu culture. Do you know it is
actually even said I don't know which
book it is is some tantra puranic
tantric book that marriage is very
important in order for a person to go
towards God and find enlightenment or
even awaken their chakras
they need to go through the process of
house being a householder. Now you must
be saying well there's these monks this
and that. Well,
again,
their thing is probably already paid
off,
okay? And you don't know what suffering
they're going through, how much harder.
Just because somebody's a monk or a
priest doesn't mean they're enlightened,
okay? Maybe in this this life, they're
yogis,
but then once they go to the afterlife,
they realize, oh, well, the karma of
marriage is unfinished.
So again it's a paradox because on one
end this Venus has paid the karmmas of
the marriage the best marriage but again
if you want to move more towards like
actually really take on the pillars and
principles to moving towards God
marriage is important partnership is
important because marriage gives you
responsibility
marriage gives you duty commitment and
shows you how to sacrifice what is I
didn't know what sacrifice was
until I got married and had kids and
have a family. It's amazing how because
that's the important part through
marriage.
It just naturally the chemical reaction
awakens inside you that it's no longer
me. Me can no longer exist as long as
this is safe. When you're single, you're
more about, okay, I need to be I need to
do this, I need to do that, I need to do
this for myself, that for myself.
But there's more to it even than that
because somebody can still somebody can
be a very much a giver even besides
marriage. But there's something that is
invoking.
Okay. Why you're looking for
transformation right in your life for
moka. Think about it. You're looking for
transformation
because you want moka enlightenment
chakra awakening. You're tired of this
boring life, this redundant life, this
rat race that you are running uh blindly
in in circles.
Well, in order to get a transformation,
what has to become active? Which is the
house of the doorway to enlightenment?
12th house, right? Liberation.
What is 8th from that liberation?
7th house.
So if you want a transformation in your
path to
attaining that thing
marriage has that seventh house becomes
active has to become active.
Okay. And then what happens is this.
Okay.
What happens is this
even one has to kill because
7th house is 8th from the 12th house.
One has to kill that idea of even
enlightenment
wanting moka in order to get moka
when you're married and yet you have
divinity in you. This is where actually
you truly understand the balancing act
of God and balancing act of the Maya.
That's the thing. Remember even in
enlightenment
you have to get rid of that thought of
the enlightenment.
You have to kill that thought. How does
that happen? That happens through
marriage.
So on one end this Venus makes a person
very oblivion. Like Venus in whether
it's women in your home, elder sister or
your spouse
one time that that relationship
dissolves. It's like it's not a bad or
good thing. No.
Okay, it's more and that more good or
bad thing it depends on not only Venus's
sign placement but all the other planets
around Venus what are they doing maybe
you're being physically abused mentally
abused psychologically abused right so
that's why you check out for that we
can't just say with this Venus
okay there is a book though that talks
about each degree and what it does but
who's going to remember I'm I will not
remember all the planets in all the sign
in all the degrees. It's like a this
small book. I think I've shown it to
before on YouTube. This is back in 2017
18. I've shown that book. But yeah, if
you learned all that maybe you'll know,
oh your Venus is in Aries and exactly at
14th degree and this is what's going to
happen. You will get abused. You will do
this. I'm not saying it's I'm just
making it up just to give an example.
Okay. But yes, you could be dealing with
those abusiveness which is why you lose
that interest in relationship. But
sometimes it just it dissolves. It is
there to dissolve.
Now Venus in the 12th house can also
bring in tremendous amount of luxury,
wealth, money like especially for a man
when Venus has the atma kara because
remember atak kara is showing your soul
purpose.
What is that unfinished karma you have?
12th house is giving donation right and
also investments Venus's spouse
including the wife you have to give to
your wife you have to give to your
spouse this is why marriage does become
important this is why I said it's a it's
a paradox we can both argue on this if
uh you should be single or not all night
long and none of us will be winners in
this but I'm just trying to make things
clear
that there is this pending karma of
doing things for your spouse buying them
luxury things, giving them things cuz
you that's what you're going to get.
You're going to get a spouse who's going
to need something, want something even
if they don't ask.
And you doing that, you're understanding
the outer, you're looking at life from
the outside layer.
And it's very important to understand
that in order to even get a hint of
enlightenment and moka
and you will see whenever this person
spends money on their spouse, buys them
luxury things, luxury goods, money comes
in, wealth comes in.
So it's not all about like enlightenment
and spirituality but
um this is that point that apex of Venus
which is saying that hey
don't don't be so desperately looking
for someone and usually in certain signs
a person will not look for somebody so
desperately with this unless Venus is
with planets then Venus gets invoked
like Venus Mercury and the 12th will
give absolute imaginative desire towards
hopeless romanticism.
One will watch a romantic movie and then
think about that romance in their own
life. I don't know, but I don't know if
anybody's watching movies anymore.
Unless you're watching some nostalgic
movie, that's a different thing.
Okay. Venus
in the 12th house does revive
past relationships.
I don't know if you have seen my video
of 8th from Venus.
Venus revived things.
Okay. And because Venus is in the 12th
house, a person will feel incomplete
without the spouse and marriage as well.
Again, like I said, it's seessaw because
Venus Venus is eye is on the ascendant.
Its energy is also going into the
ascendant.
But one thing you have to understand
with this Venus, you give especially
doing things for women, girls, wife,
spouse.
This is this is the main part of the
reason why you're born. You're not here
to make your startup into a billion
dollar thing that's not doing anything
for the universe. You can be a
trillionaire. When you go outside in
space and you look at Earth, it's
exactly the same. How many trillionaires
have gone come and gone by? Like if you
look at some of these previous kings, if
their their wealth, if you equal that to
today's inflation, it's literally beyond
trillions.
Beyond trillions, 20 trillion even.
But earth didn't change. So that's not
your purpose. You're not accomplishing
anything by creating a billion dollar
industry. that just for so you can
sustain yourself and you can also live
in that Maya because you grew up with
all these fantasies cuz you saw private
jets, you saw these big boats, you saw
these fancy celebrities and you're like,
"Oh yeah, that comes through billion
dollars." That's all it is. It's just
it's your mind controlled. But if you're
outside of control, that doesn't mean
anything. So don't think like this every
planetary placement has to deal with
money and career and business. No,
that's important. Very important. But
when we're looking at the deeper thing,
the rabbit hole that most people don't
want to look into, then these things
don't matter.
Okay. So anyway guys, this was my
analysis of Venus as the atma kakarta
and the 12th house. And remember, if
you're new to my channel, subscribe
below.
And next time we'll see you with the I
guess Venus Ketus left. All right, see
you later. Bye-bye.
[Music]
So ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our
video of Mars in the second house as
your atma karaa which is the planet with
the highest degree
where Uranus, Neptune and Pluto are not
calculated, Rahu Ketu are not
calculated.
Okay.
So even your Mars can be at 15° and it
could be the atma karaa because rest of
the planets are below 15°.
And if you do not know which planet is
your atma karaa along with all your
other seven karakas, you can go to car
astrology.com here under top section and
option six will give you the report
along with all the other options beyond
number six. Okay. And remember I
uploaded the Scorpio blank chart
predictions also on magabetic academy
along with their age activation
techniques which is brilliant. So when
Mars is in the second house as the
atmaka, first thing that you will see
that this person has to take on the
responsibility of the family and the
finance and the money
like before this person likes to do
something for themselves and this is
really you will see the see the pure
maturity of atma karaaka really seen
when a person is an adult like
especially beyond 28th year even though
Mars matures at 28.
Okay, that is also actually the real
true adult age for humans. Not 19, 21,
18, 25, it's actually 28. From that
moment onwards, you start to really see
and resonate with this atma kakarta
mars. And the more it goes beyond in the
30s, that's when it really comes out
because whenever this person wants to
get something for themselves, attain
something for themselves, some other
need has to be fulfilled first.
meaning you have to somehow take care of
the family first before you spend money
somewhere else. Usually what also
happens is many of times people will
come to you for financial help and
depending upon how Mars is placed yes
taking care of those people can be
unethical
not good for them but if Mars is in a
position actually a strong position then
you know the people who come to you for
help you're going to have to help them
okay that becomes the obligation because
here the atma kara has to learn lessons
there that's why it's the atma kara
it is the soul is here to burn certain
karmas that it has taken on from past
few lives
it's the accumulation of those lives and
those actions that have given this Mars
that full concentrated energy and
especially one of the biggest things for
this Mars is to protect the family and
children
like you will see with as Mars as the
atmaka they'll be very very focused on
their children like beyond focused
what their children doing always keeping
a security tap on them because Mars is a
security Mars is security officer police
officer IPS officer
so it has to keep its you know eye on it
but on the other hand because Mars is in
the second you will see that
especially when this Mars becomes
independent.
Okay. And remember Mars is in the second
right. So the atma karaa Mars whose
eighth aspect is going to be on the
ninth house. So it shows due to the
troubles of the father trouble to the
father this person has to take on
certain responsibility
especially when this person moves away
goes far away that's when really it
brings about
strong challenges in the f life of the
father.
Okay. And so even if this Mars becomes
independent, it has to also again take
care of the obligations of the family.
Mars here
because it's seventh aspect is going to
be on the eighth house as the atma kara.
going to have a very hard time trying to
compromise with the in-laws and they're
going to have to because see when the
atma kara
is dealing with the challenge most of
the time they have to give up on that
challenge. If Mars is not the atma atma
karaa then of course you can easily you
know not compromise and win your battle
but here it's Mars's obligation to
compromise cuz again it's a learning
lesson and Mars in the second house will
also show that the speed of money
becomes very fast whatever comes in has
to go somewhere has to be spent
somewhere
now of course if let's say you do have
Saturn there with Mars. Saturn can
control Mars and its spending habits.
Especially if Saturn has a lower degree
because then Saturn is winning that
particular conjunction war. Not really a
war. War won't happen unless they are
one degree apart. But Saturn will be
able to stabilize most of that spending.
But if let's say Jupiter Mars are there,
Mars is the atmaka then Jupiter like
expanding that quality of Mars. It is
telling Mars yes spend. And this is
where a person has to be very very
mature about their handling of the
money.
Okay. Usually it may usually in young
age they'll make a lot of mistakes
wanting to get things that are not in
need but more of a want.
Okay. More of a want.
So
this is where they have to kind of
learn these lessons.
Okay. The other thing the Mars this Mars
will also be actually as the atmakara
becomes quite protective of their
education like they will always try to
make sure that their education
is not being challenged is not going
into some obstacle or hurdle.
Okay. Mars in the as the atma kara the
biggest one of the other biggest lessons
this person has to learn is counter
offense in their speech.
Because this particular Mars when they
have to get into some kind of a talk
argument negotiations
Mars cannot control itself. It is and
especially Mars will speak the truth.
That's the problem. And with atmaakarta
it actually becomes a bigger problem.
Mars won't wants to say exactly how it
is. It is raw. It doesn't have any shell
on top of it. Like let's say Venus.
Venus has a very beautiful shell. It
knows when to say what to say something
to get what it wants. Moon will also do
that. Sun and Mars will have a hard time
because it's like the sun who's the
authority, the king, they just say what
is said and people better follow it. And
especially in common life, it doesn't
work that way because not everybody's a
king. Not everybody is that at that
status. So Mars with this commanding
nature usually will lose many a times in
life and not just like I'm talking about
debates and conversations but
opportunities why because they just
spoke the truth instead of playing
office politics they said right there
and then to the boss to the supervisor
to the coworker what is what everybody's
wishing to say
but can't say it because they know then
that can affect their employment or they
can affect their promotions. But this
person be like this is what's happening.
Look I'm telling you this is what's
happening.
So as the atma
due to their rawness in their speech
opportunities do get lost.
Okay. And one of the biggest things the
motivation behind this Mars
in in order to complete its goals in
order to achieve its goal achieve it
success they always want a secure home.
That's the motivation of this Mars.
They they they're always focused on when
will I have my own home? When will I
have my own property?
That's their motivation. Motivation is
to give perhaps their mother a secure
place to live.
Now, I'm saying perhaps because we don't
know how the individual relationship
will be with their mother. Maybe they
didn't have a mother. Maybe their mother
left them. maybe just
really big fights with the mother
throughout life. So we can't really say
that but I'm saying that motivation is
towards the fourth house.
Motivation is actually towards wanting
to at one point have a nice machine that
they can drive because again car is what
car is Venus but it's also Mars because
it's a machine.
Okay.
You can also it's Saturn because it's
run with petroleum but also now it's
electricity so again becomes Mars
so that Mars will also be there and also
you got to understand Mars naturally
will all of this affect the 10th place
from itself.
Now we can call it the aspect
but of course it has never been given in
the classical literature that we all
know of but Mars effects the tenth from
itself for sure. So here Mars will be
very um proactive
towards earning their gains making the
right social circles network circles but
especially because Mars is the atamaka
they will lose social circles the
important ones. Why? Where's Mars
sitting? second house for their speech,
okay? For their speaking ability, they
will lose cuz again the 10th aspect, not
aspect, the 10th place from Mars becomes
where Mars is exalted. So Mars is going
to exert most of its energy 10th from
itself.
This is why and also one has to be very
careful cuz such a Mars can also get
scams or cheated in money.
money, inheritance,
okay? And and if that happens, just know
it's not because of those people who
refuse to give you your inheritance,
parents, siblings, whoever. It is your
own karma that does that. So don't try
to fight for it. And even if you fight
for it, you lose. Just quietly walk
away. No need to hold any grudges.
That's the whole point of jotish. That's
the whole point of astrology. If
something is has happened, it's not like
the god and universe hates you. It's not
like these people who are uh in front of
you as your relatives, they hate you.
No, they're they're all playing a
scripted part in your play.
So whether you're the antagonist or
protagonist,
that's besides the point. They're you're
playing your role and everybody else is
becoming a support role for you and your
chart.
and atma kara mars if it's in a good
condition can be very very disciplined
towards their dietary restrict
restrictions
okay but if the Mars is you know not
under the best of influence then yes the
diet will be all over the place okay
usually such a person will love eating
like spicy food
spicy food non-veg food especially fried
foods Mars is fried foods and especially
if you have let's say Rahu with Mars
then they love eating like fried chicken
junk food
that's what they love so you have to see
how Mars is and who is Mars with and
what sign and dignity is placed in okay
so this was my analysis of Mars in the
second house as your atma karaa get new
to my channel subscribe below so you
don't miss this type of videos and
remember my Scorpio blank chart
predictions is published on magitology
academy otherwise we'll see you later
bye-bye
[Music] so ladies and gentlemen Welcome to our video of third Lord through houses as in
what happens when your third Lord is sitting in third house fourth house fifth house 6th house 7th house so we're
going to discuss all the 12 houses today and remember this is a three-part series
it's start at one or two part series three part Series so first is third Lord through houses second one will be other
Lords sitting in the third house and the third part will be planets in the third house which you can
correlate with planets ruling other houses sitting in the third house whether it's Sun Moon Saturn Jupiter so
you get the entire picture okay of course you know why I'm doing these videos I got myself a new
toy that's what that's what inspires me a new toy so I got to test it out
testing it out for the Saturn movie that you guys will get next year hopefully you have watched my rahu movie my ketu
movie interview of rahu and meeting ketu please go and watch it so I feel more
inspired and motivated to make it okay and as always if you do not know if you have these particular where's your third
Lord's place all your astrological details you can go to caros astrology.com under shop section option
six where you'll get the PDF report of all your planetary alignments or any other option will give you that
regarding the readings and also I have the just the watch reading now just straight up wristwatch reading so if you
want to know which wristwatch is good for you which one should you get if you have any that you want to purchase you send the pictures of that and I'll show
you and I'll tell you which one is correct for you so anyway um let's start with our video today of third Lord
through houses so third Lord is in the third house now what is the third house first of all first let's talk about the
third house third house is the house of your biggest transformation not a normal
transformation this is like your world is turned up upside down good way or bad way both ways so
it's a most important house for transformation you know people who feel like like for example I'm in the middle
of nowhere I'm in the middle of jungle right this is my Palace this is where I I find my absolute Peace Quiet
happiness there's no desire that okay I want to be on Fifth Avenue in New York having a three-story Mansion worth $70
million it's not me right so but if you are looking if
you're place like this and you're like I want to be in New York I want to be in Dubai in burja
khif that means your world has to turn completely upside down that's what third
house will do third house is the house of the fruits of your
karma meaning two things are happening here you are doing your
karma okay because third house is effort you're putting an effort in and then what is happening you're
getting the fruit of that particular carb okay which means for example third
hous is travels short distance travel right for example when you wanted
to ride a bike what did you do you first were pushing with your you know feet
right you were dragging and then you were like uh you know holding and trying to balance the bike the first 2 3 hours
or maybe the first 2 3 days and then suddenly from that you
just started ping what are you doing you're putting effort into something right you put effort effort effort
effort effort and then what is the fruit of that boom one day you're just like riding your bike normally and next thing
you know you're doing all kinds of tricks with the bike at a bike uh uh you
know biking so you see how effort effort effort effort leads to the fruit so
third house becomes that fruit the other thing about the third
houses is that in order to get your fruit you're supposed to be able to
converse with somebody so it is your communication
style how do you speak like for example how am I speaking here in front of you
you right how do you speak because when you speak when you
say something those words are the effort to give you some fruit in
return so that's what the third house is this is why the media controls
everything everything the media will control how is that well because media
will provide you information right they provide you with the information and once they have given you
the information they put in the effort hey let's give this information to the world now the world is controlled by
that information and whatever then the media says goes they are the Lords of
you they are the Lords of the ring so you see how brilliantly it works
they put effort into saying something providing some information and in return the fruit is
now they have controlled the public that's the third house third
house especially represents the gym why because you're putting effort into building
muscles okay third house is bravery how much Brave you are so here's the thing
your ascendant can be weak right we went through ascendant Lord through houses
and all of that let's say your ascendant is weak but your third house is strong you know what that means even if you're
not capable of fighting and having the strength to fight you have the courage
to fight even with your cane you will come out of your door to face the enemies like yeah you want to beat me
let's go what are you going to do just break my other leg Yeah but I'm coming out that's the difference now imagine if
the first house is strong and the third house is strong oh boy anything is possible for such such a person so it's
that strength you're showing in front of public or the other
person through your effort you control the luck of the other
person you can destroy somebody's luck or increase somebody's luck with the third house remember that too remember
like for example when you say something negative you criticize somebody you destroyed somebody's
future and one has to be very careful when somebody says anything negative about anyone
online okay because if somebody has some placement somebody's a ketu ruled
individual somebody is a jupiterian ruled individual whatever they say about
that person same thing happens to them but 10 times worse within 3 months within 90 days
that person will suffer something either major or something when they try to
criticize somebody online so this is why you have to be very careful with the third house words
or third house writing because third house is also writing third house is skill the skill of the
weapon words are weapon and the weapon is weapon and when you shoot it it's not coming back what's going to come back is
the bomarang karma so this is third house now let's
talk about third Lord through all the houses first we're going to do third Lord in the third
house so then first house or third Lord is in the third house what does that
mean first of all the third Lord being in the third house is giving strength to that
house and the degree of the strength really depends upon the planet there are
these soft Landings and hard Landings there is this soft strength
that a person has then there is this hard strength the person has and they may not even display it
like oh my God I have this uh soft strength in my life but there will be
soft it'll be soft so you will see this and third Lord in the third house and
remember third house is also siblings here the person will protect
siblings especially usually siblings in general but younger siblings for sure
there's this desire to protect it you know why because of the third Lord is in the third house like for example here I
am at my property so I'm the owner of it so something
happens I'm protecting it whatever is here is mine I'm protecting it for
example there's these scenarios where the individual becomes quite abusive to
the third to the younger siblings usually it is that way right we always
had fights with older siblings younger siblings younger cousins but when it
comes time to protecting them boy you were right in the front you're like the only one who can abuse
them is me who how dare you abuse them how dare you bully my younger sibling
I'm the only one who bullies that person so in that particular way the third Lord
protects it protects his particular house and shows courage when the time
comes and depending upon the planet you will see in the third part how that courage becomes
activated how that courage becomes activated when they
speak regardless of the planet they will speak with the best
conviction the most conviction the strength of the third
house represents how much you can convince other
people that's what happens
now on the other hand regarding the skill part whatever the planet is sitting in
the third house that's the easiest skill you're able to develop it's like naturally given to
you it's like somebody who might be a engineer lawyer surgeon yet they just
have a skill of sketching people they can sketch somebody and people are like are you an artist no I'm a thoracic
heart surgeon so third Lord in the third house brings some form of a natural
strength depending upon on the planet okay now on the other hand third
Lord goes into the fourth house so now what's happening so now third Lord is in
the fourth house okay that means regardless of what you like doing in your life regardless of
what your skills are in life naturally universe will always put you in a situation where your effort and strength
has to be displayed in the home your strength and your skill is going to
be used to helping the home helping the mother helping with the household
chores the transformation the biggest transformation that this person will go
through will happen by and through the mother will happen by and for and
through the home like for example how the situation uations is
placed you will see the moment this person purchases a property some big change
happens and what that change is going to be depends upon what the condition of
the third Lord is sitting in the fourth house third Lord is in the fourth house
these people love putting effort but in a very secretive manner like if you saw
this person walking on the street it'll be like just this person just average you know I don't know if this person is
going to be successful or not but if you were to surveillance them for 24 hours
in their own private space they are non-stop
working because why this person efforts feels more comfortable when they are
hidden in plain sight because fourth house is House of rest fourth a house of sleep it's night
that means any effort that is being put any strength that is going to be displayed is going to be displayed in
privacy in secrecy and usually such people maybe night workers they usually
like to work in the evening in the evening
time the other thing you will see younger siblings okay will always need the help
and support of the mother and the home and the family they their need is going to be met through
the fourth house their need is going to be met by your
happiness fourth house is what fourth house is the happiness of your
existence your overall happiness you will have different happinesses in life
whether it's work whether it's relationship whether it's your spiritual Focus but this is the overall
happiness and you will see when third Lord is in the fourth house younger sibling becomes part of your happiness
now there's two ways here they can become part of your happiness or they will interrupt your
happiness that's how simple it is so you know whenever you are about to celebrate something and
boom the brother or the sister you don't want to deal with shows up like you know the best example is I don't know if you
have seen the movie Michael Clayton where uh George Clooney's brother shows up at their older brothers
and father's birthday and he's like a drug addict it's like what are you doing here so there's a
happy moment happy celebration that is happening and then boom suddenly a person shows up and tries to interrupt
that particular peace and happiness and especially the strength
you know how you gain your strength in life with thir third Lord in the fourth house if the mother is there serving the
mother when you take care of the mother serve the mother okay your Valor and strength will
increase number two knowledge and I'm not talking about knowledge that you hear in school no knowledge of the
isas knowledge of the older philosophers
Richies Saints when you read their stories it gives you
strength you know why because fourth house is a place where Jupiter is
exalted and J Jupiter knows all the Vic knowledge not the most powerful
tantric knowledge Vic knowledge like when third Lord's in the fourth house go study bhagat Gita if
you're scared of something for example you're scared of facing a bully and you know this bully is going to harass you
today you read the Hanan Chalisa suddenly you will see I'm getting strength and you'll be willing
to fight to the end with that bully
now third Lord goes into the fifth house so here I am uh at the construction side
of my third cabin on my property it's getting done
it's almost done okay so yeah that's the way to end third Lord in the fourth
house um so third Lord in the fifth house fifth house
right it's a house of your children education your intelligence fifth
house is the house of mantras fifth house is a house of your final
rights or the final rights that may be performed for someone else fifth house is creativity fifth
house is you know stage so you will see when the third Lord is in the fifth house where is this
person's effort going to go into they're all efforts are always going to
be put into fun and games and
romance and performance Sports love for
children and you will see you know when their strength increases like their ability to
withstand certain things their ability to um show their Valor when children come
in their life so even if they weren't so courageous before but now the children are in the
picture they will die facing any form of a threat and that's what increases their
Valor that's what increases their strength in life children give this
person strength and because third house is the fruits of the
karma the fruits come in with the birth of children
the big transformation you look for okay cuz usually third
Lord in the fifth house is a very welcome place so what happens is birth
of children brings that sudden up and down scenario in a person's life like
you want to turn your life around have children when children come in there
will be a major change and transformation in your life when it comes to the
mantras whenever it comes to some form of mantras and intelligence now that
requires effort that's where effort goes in and through enough effort now you will see
when third Lord's in the fifth house mantras give the best results to this person because it's the house of
effort and mantras when you say mantras you're what are you doing you're putting effort
you're saying like 3,000 mantras 10,000 mantras of something the more you build
that energy the sweeter the fruit becomes of that particular
Mantra and then
media neighbors siblings will always somehow tend to
occupy this person's intelligence their intelligence develops
through such people so their intelligence may not be developed through mother father's
teacher it's what they learn through media gives them intelligence now remember a besides sun
and moon other planets will rule the rule two houses so you will see both
those houses will effect to give that particular effect of development of
intelligence but see because third Lord is in the third house you know what that is that is known as bat
bham third from the third this is where the talent of a person becomes three
times the power of three and so it exuberates this does not
mean that they become the most talented and the richest actor or you know performer because for that you have to
have the ability to actually gain that particular thing so you have to see that in the
chart but it'll be there it will be there and you will see their ability to
speak will always come out in entertaining manner creative manner
jular manner it's like they're going to entertain the crowd if they're going to
teach bhagwat Gita if they're going to talk about the Bible they're going to make it so entertaining that people just
remember the verses it'll retain that they'll retain that information in their
Ukrainian okay they'll cut right through into the UK Cranium of the of the
individual now you have third Lord in the fif sixth house so then
third Lord goes into the sixth house right the third Lord of effort is
in the sixth house third Lord energy siblings neighbors skills transformation
is all linked with the sixth house so usually this is the position
where there's a very strong Karma to be
repaid this is the repayment system this is the bill coming to you with
interest so in this particular case first of all you will see that in order to
validate their relationship with the younger siblings siblings in general one has to deal with tremendous
amount of animosity there's always the struggle to maintain that relationship with your
siblings it feels like their relationship of such an individual it's like
dealing inside the eny enemies Den it feels
like like what did I do in my past life to have to make this effort to deal with
my siblings but third Lord in the sixth okay will also shows that this
person is born their transformation will only come through when they deal with
the biggest enemy it's when you you have to deal with some big fight in
your life when you have to deal with some big com competition in your life
and once you find victory over that this is when that thing becomes Topsy turby
your life goes from point A to point Z but also you will see whenever this
person will try to communicate either their communication
gets them in struggle communication gets them in trouble
or the they this individual holds the
capacity to destroy the enemy with their
communication their communication you know what happens with this person this communication will always irritate the
enemy when they speak somehow dispute becomes active
some politician is giving some speech you know what happens with this person their
communication triggers other people their communication style if it's a
politician somehow they'll without even wanting or knowing they'll trigger their
enemy country to go to war with them this is see this is the
person when they communicate they they can irritate the enemy and they they actually find happiness through
it because third Lord is in the sixth house third Lord happiness is the sixth
house so whatever like for example an athlete a boxer wrestler MMA fighter
says something it irritates the P the their opponents so much that it can
actually weaken them cuz they're triggering them they know how to trigger things you know those people who will
say things online who'll say things as an influence that triggers the entire Community oh my
God this person said this and now their name is out there now they have
triggered enough people to get their name out there usually you will see news
reporters can usually be seen with this position a lot cuz they have the ability to trigger they get your attention
they'll say something which is now going viral see when things go viral they don't have have to be in a good way it's
like because people want to hate this person so much they make things go
viral and the thing is the reason why I said happiness is because third Lord is
fourth from itself fourth house is the happiness of that particular Lord so this is why they're they're in
the house of the happiness enemies conflicts okay or kind of rescuing
people providing help to people becomes our happiness
so many of times if the chart says this person is will be good in medicine then
most definitely their entire effort see sometimes you become a doctor and you may not be happy with it this person
will H will be happy in dealing with the diseases because when you when wherever
they're putting their effort that's where they want to get the fruits from so because the effort is going into the
sixth house of diseases health they're going to they're they're going to desire to
reap the results of that fruit and usually third Lord in the sixth house shows younger siblings keep
getting into trouble either Health trouble legal trouble conflicts with
people but then ultimately your happiness becomes hey I'll save them from this conflict I'll help them from
this particular thing now third Lord goes into the seventh house so then
your third lord of the third Lord energy the third house
energy is in the seventh house 7th house is what 7th house is the house of partner marriage relationships
business your clients so now where's your entire
effort is going to be put even if you don't want to focus on this your life is always going to ask
you to put effort towards your marriage but this person will always put
effort from the beginning to wanting to be in a relationship wanting to have a coral
relationship you know why they do that it's not because of like romance and sex
and all of that those are like byproducts you know the main thing is
they feel confident when they're in a relationship relationship brings brings
them confidence relationship and marriage brings them Valor
relationships motivate them like for example third Lord in the fifth house
romance romance energizes you romance make you feel like you can completely
accomplish anything you want as long as that romances with you same thing is happening
here third Lord shows that the person's strength will increase when the seventh
house is active in business they they will do whatever they can to please the
client their strength the greatest strength the natural strength will be
towards how to deal with the issues of the clients issues of the marriage they may they don't need to run
away they will not they don't have to run away they will resolve they have that power they have that strength
because of their previous experiences of failing and winning and failing and winning ultimately
when they're in a mature state of their life stuff
happens okay I know how to deal with it their communication you will
see their communication is always businesslike very good in uh
communication very professional in communication see whenever the L House
of communication goes into comma houses 3rd 7th and 11th it's like a natural
ability to communicate with with a crowd in such a manner that uh they know your what's
your point they know what is it that you're trying to uh you know portray with your
message you will also see younger siblings but into an
individual's marriage or saves an individual marriage neighbor may but in your
marriage or will help your marriage which which one is happening
for that you have to understand the strength of these things and again I keep saying that but if you know uh nand
Nadi okay if you have learned somewhere else if you're taking my course of nandar especially you'll know what
planet is in strength what planet is in weakness okay but you will see when
third Lord is in the seventh house the siblings have to get married first before your marriage becomes
active when the younger sibling gets married now you can get married so if
you're trying to find yourself a wife or a groom and you're just like what's
happening I'm well qualified I'm actually overqualified with my education
with my work with my money what's going on well do you have younger siblings yes
are they single yes then get them married what are you watching me for you
know go get the married so uh you know that that that's
a that's a very important part cuz they're becoming the veroda with your
marriage their triggering of their marriage activates your seventh house that's all it
is when they get married they activate your seventh house now you get
married okay but whenever you get into a relationship and if they're single they're some issue of them interrupts
your relationship or your marriage or your process of getting married
and of course because the third Lord is in the seventh um even if they cannot do
business they'll always feel like God I wish I could just put my effort in doing business and making my own money instead
of like working somewhere else third Lord goes into the eighth house so then
third Lord goes into the Eighth House well this is a position that can
sometimes actually show that there will be a non-existent either relationship sh with the siblings a person may not have
younger siblings but more importantly cuz having
siblings and not having sibling is actually will be seen through qualities of Mars Venus and
Mercury so that's okay but third Lord in the eighth house one thing we see that actually you
may have a younger sibling who becomes an occultist younger sibling will will be
extremely good in cyber security hacking
spying their energy is always linked to the 8th
house life has to be full of transformation like their life cannot be
normal their life cannot be plain otherwise they actually won't even like it this is the type of person who may
look for Adventures they're always way they might be photographer for natural geographic
why because they're going from one country to another one continent to another one scary life-threatening
situation to another and that's what exhilarates them that's your younger sibling now
your third Lord of effort is in the earth what's happening with your effort going down right in the
drain any effort you make just goes down nothing comes out of it but what's the
problem here your efforts are not going towards the Eighth House
if they're going towards the eighth house then the fruits will come in so
let's say you're you're let's say somebody's a filmmaker okay they're putting their
effort they're making this movie that movie this movie nothing is happening
efforts in vain and maybe they're not doing this that's why it's happening because
once they start putting effort into making paranormal movies murder movies
psychological thrillers now suddenly they're getting recognized why because they have aligned
their effort with the eighth that's what
happens and especially when third Lord is in the eighth neighbor will be extremely
Troublesome in your life or neighbor's own health is so ups and downs that they're you hardly ever see them but you
know what the best way is in order to um have a better cordal
relationship with the neighbor you don't talk to your neighbor so much start talking about the eight
cups ask your neighbor about astrology you believe in astrology and they'll start laughing at you oh my god what are
you talking about and you're suddenly now have lightened their animosity
towards you start talking to them about conspiracy theories oh do you know there's alien
living underneath the Earth you know there's alien living on moon on the dark side of the moon what do you
think and they'll be like you know you're not as smart as I
thought so maybe I don't need to give you trouble anyway cuz you're dumb you see what you're doing even if
you look dumb in front of them tired Lord in the a house no longer now gives you trouble cuz I feel like why am I
giving this a trouble who believes in these nonsensical things and doesn't
believe in science you know so that's
what happens and especially you will see when third Lord's in the earth whenever a person speaks let's say they want to
speak in the crowd first of all there will be an anxiety there will be fear in
the beginning stages of this person's life of wanting to speak in front of the crowd but then once they develop that
confidence you know how they develop that confidence when you want to develop some confidence in front of
public think of some secret you can talk to these people about when you bring something
absolutely hidden in your speech that's when the crowd will begin
to respect you that's when the crowd will begin to pay attention to you and not try to make fun of
you now not to bring this uh ridicule
Behavior towards you why because you aligned your communication with the a
th like for example when you make art if you make art make some dark art
make a painting of a vampire or something make some psychologically invoking
painting that is going to kind of help you align with your skills and that's the thing third Lord
in the 8 house your skill should go into research of somehow like R&D it's not
doesn't always have to be a cult mm it can be R&D accounting dealing with other people's assets your efforts are very
good at dealing with the 8 house matter Insurance related research right people become Insurance
analysts so Insurance research becomes great
then third Lord is in the 9th house what is that doing so then you
have third Lord in the 9th house house right 9th house is Father gurus teachers
Divine knowledge higher knowledge pilgrimage postr education your luck
your you know Fortune your uh siblings-in-law
can keep going and going so one thing you will see first of all tremendous effort a person will put
to please their father one always loves to put effort
pleasing their teacher their Guru always wanting to do something for
them and specifically with third Lord and the ninth you will
see father's attention will be actually on your siblings more than you which is why you
make more effort into getting the attention of the father your ability to
speak is like a guru is speaking it's like a Rishi is
speaking your regular your insult your insult towards someone can become like
an abesa can become like a dictation you know why it's such a
preferable strong position because the third Lord who's in the ninth looks back at its own house and said I'm protecting
you you say whatever you want and because the 9th house is a
teacher you will see actually there is this natural Zeal towards inspiring
others like such people make great life coach business coach motivational
coaches okay they become great strategists they know they strategically
know how to maneuver to gain what they want they know exactly where to put their effort in because 9000 is a house
of War now you must be thinking oh my God 9,000 how can it be a house of War it's a house of Temple what do you think Wars happen on
it happens on temples mosques Church religion my religion is better than
yours and this is what you humans do so you are an interesting
species and I'm enjoying being in this biomechanical suit enjoying all the
things pretty much half of you create not all of you those that create I don't know why I
I don't know why what what thrill you get from it but it's it's not it's a house of War cuz remember this is the
original House of Sagittarius have you seen the symbolism of Sagittarius what is the symbolism of
Sagittarius man has the arrow it's pointing it's ready to strike and it's running like the horse meaning it's it
it's ready it's running for war is running towards the enemy that and that's nine tells us
where the birth of purvashada occurs the the planet the nakshatra that starts
Wars so this person they're so
strategic just like third Lord in the sixth third Lord in the ninth can put them
into Wars and troubles disputes and
fights okay that's what uh this particular position will do but also if
such person wants to increase their luck they need to speak the more they give speeches the
more they write the more they publish the more they are out in the media the better their luck keep rising
and rising and Rising but why but remember it's the effort third house is the effort it's
not like okay I give a one speech and I'm going to be good no you have to put the effort and you
have to be strategic why are you giving a speech when are you giving a speech what timing are you using to give a
speech okay but also is their natural skill see
third house is a skill right natural skill in how to become a mentor and a
teacher in life and you become extremely lucky for your younger siblings because of you younger sibling
Bia is risen no matter how bad their career is they always T to find a career to feed
themselves it's not like I'm saying that they're going to be extremely wealthy this and that but somehow some way
blessings at the last minute they get some kind of a blessing because of your
chart then you will also see when third Lord's in the ninth house whoever neighbor you
become whoever neighbor you become that neighbor begins to prosper they suddenly find their luck if
you had a neighbor third Lord in the ninth house your neighbor was single the moment you moved in they got
married they got married okay
now you will also see third Lord going to the 10th house so then let's talk
about third Lord in the 10th house here siblings become very lucky
because of your birth their career will always be great it will always be in a
very strong authoritative position they can go into high ranks and
especially of course you have to see how the third Lord is placed you know
whether it's in a position of strongness weakness which already which happens you know how it happens is by looking at the
neighboring planets and if there's no neighboring planets then planet is
good neighboring planets and of course you have to see the try where's your effort
going what are the fruits that your car Aras that you have accumulated are
wanting from you maybe you don't want to do this but your karmic fruits are saying your effort no matter what you do
always have to be in your career and when you put forth the effort
the fruit is going to give you Fame the fruit is going to give you
recognition the fruit is going to be S sweet enough that is going to put you in a position of
power usually third Lord in the 10th house or 10th Lord in the third house is a position of a person who will do
business putting their own effort into their career and
career the work environment must have the use of
communication if there's no communication half your efforts are not even giving you fruits or your full
efforts is giving you half fruits you will also see when when when
you have third L of the 10th house and you move into a neighborhood your neighbor suddenly
begins to improve their own career they get promotions and it's not like you can
willfully do this it's because of it was their time to find success you moved
in you moved in your speech is
always to somehow win the hearts of
authorities when you speak people at the high ranking you know or higher ashlon
of society will listen listen to you whether what you say works or
doesn't work they will listen to you they're going to give you
respect they're going to give you respect and then third house is your
skill so what is your skill what is the skill that you have developed is to be a professional you are a
professional see being a professional is a skill like when you go for a job interview now it is people just wear
shirts and t-shirts and go even if you're going for a retail job people are now like going like they're
just woke up and left you know when I went for an interview I actually dressed
up wore a suit even if I was going for a retail job or somebody's store I wore a
nice shirt pants you know um belt everything I looked presentable so what
happens is such a person has that capacity to look professional
their professionalism is what wins them their success their fruits or their
effort gives fruits when there's professionalism involved and in their particular work
they will have to write something nowadays I you know what's the ma majority of the thing that I see is
um writing codes like a lot of people who are in it are writing
codes but you back in the days when people actually had this desire to be a
writer professional writer CU nowadays I don't know if there's any money in it cuz AI is doing a lot of a lot of the
writing but um one's effort into writing would give them great results or work
environment would require you to write and your biggest
transformation your transformation gets unlocked through your career the more
professional you are the more presentable you look the better chances
of your great transformation to happen the more sluggish you look in your work the more it looks like you're not
putting effort into something the more you and you will be the one who's going
to be paid attention to that is this person professional or not somebody else may not get that attention cuz their
lord is somewhere else you will be getting that attention and if you do get that attention and you do do the right
thing you get the reward otherwise you get failur then so then you have third
Lord in the 11th house
okay so part of your happiness you know cuz whenever you put effort right when
we put effort into something we love that we're like oh my God I built this thing even though nobody else is going
to see it nobody else is going to use it you're like I did it one of the things that brings this
person Joy with their effort is when they fulfill the desires of their siblings your younger sister always
wanted to go to the Bai you're in a middle class family working hard saving money and then you
go to a particular rank in your life where now you can afford things so what
do you do the first thought of that effort that you want to put toward something you
know my younger sister always wanted to go to Dubai I'm going to send her for a whole week here
go and the thing is when the effort when the effort is put in fulfilling the
desires of the younger siblings what is happening your own 11,000 becomes
active now is that good or bad I don't know because 11 House's desire right so your desire can be fulfilled but also it
can go the other way too depending upon how the third Lord is and how the 11th
Lord is because that will show that by you activating your third house either
suddenly your desires are being fulfilled your rank is running high or you also can run into big enemies or you
suddenly start doing active so now your third Lord sitting in the 12th
house what is happening so 12th house it's a house of
exit 12th house is a house of foreign far away places is the house of expenses
donations Investments is the Ethereal
house which is a house of observing things it's a house of
Escape so where do you think this person's effort is going to go this person's effort is going to go towards
escaping third l in the 12th house if is Disturbed a person can become a drug addict otherwise a person will look for
there will their their effort will always be towards putting money in Investments where they
don't have to work and they can go on adventures around the world third loan of the 12th house
younger sibling will find success only in foreign lands
you will especially put a lot of effort into visiting spiritual places in life
and by going to those spiritual places you gain strength because third house is Valor
right where's your strength becoming act becomes active it becomes active in places of isolation you show your best
strength when you're in isolation but if you want strength and you want to gain strength you know people who are boxers
and fighter they'll disappear from the media disappear from all over the place for the next four 5 six months then
they'll like put up some video on social media them training or something why because they are rejuvenating themselves
they're Gathering their strength so it's very important with third l in the 12th house that if you want fruits of your
karma you've got to go and put your effort into far away places but also you have to work on yourself in
isolation work on yourself away from people that are around
you and the thing is um like I said third Lord in the 12th house if your
siblings are struggling in their profession send them either out of state or tell them go find a job in a foreign
place you'll be fine that's prediction you make you don't need to look at their chart with your own chart you're seeing
what needs to be done especially younger siblings younger siblings
must go towards putting their effort and going into a far away place but but you
will see the such person is always skilled in doing stock market skilled in
doing Investments why because that's their natural skill natural skill is going towards the
12 so it's one of these sometimes it's all sometimes it's few cuz you have to see that other planets will bring about
interest towards investment because instead of investment interest a person will have interest in doing donation
free work giving themselves into service to others or one just simply wants to
live upgr in isolation that's their effort they don't care about Investments so it's all of
these things but it may only just be one but it's always going to be
that okay one one thing we also see younger siblings always will spend money
expenses and you will love spending money on younger siblings why because your hard Lord and
your effort goes into expenses so just like the 11th house you
will love sending your younger sibling to foreign places to visit to have
fun so this is where you know we see this you know road to our Lord in 12
houses and especially if you also look at the speech pattern such folks actually love
conversing in privacy they don't really want to be in media they don't really want to talk and if they do talk they'll
be um you will see they their expertise can become about foreign policies if
it's a politician they'll be really good at talking about some kind of a foreign policy or some kind of a geopolitical
issue instead of a local political issue that's the expertise that they have kind of like naturally accumulated
okay so yeah I have to re-upload this video because I forgot to uh do third
Lord in the first and third Lord in the second so let's talk about third Lord in the first
house that means the effort and the transformation comes to
you here first thing you will see in order for this person to maintain their physique physical body physical health
tremendous effort is is going to be required cuz if they just let their uh
body slip away they're not washing their diet they're not watching their exercise not doing
yoga body slips the same thing happens when third Lord is conjunct the ascendant Lord or
third Lord is conjunct the uh conjunct Jupiter all three of them will represent
this particular scenario including even third Lord with actually more than even Jupiter Mars unless you turn out to be a Scorpio
or Aries ascendant and the thing is with third
Lord in the ascendant your life okay your entire personality who
you are as a person develops through media media influences you neighbor
influences you friends influences you cousin influences you what cousin says
oh that's right what mom and dad are saying may not be right okay unless there's a balancing balancing effect of
um your sun and moon or fourth and fifth Lord influencing this but the thing is
this person gains their access to uh what is right and wrong through
the third house matter so it can be dangerous thing because a lot of people say all kind of BS
online and if they F think that that is right it's misguiding them you know and
because remember it is in a house originally controlled by Mercury third Lord in the ascendant
there's duality in a person dual nature in a person one minute they want to shift
this way next minute they want to shift that way there's no steadiness your friend told you or you told your friend
you're going to do one thing you ended up doing the other thing you said you told your friend oh I'm going to be
coming to this place at 5:00 p.m. I'll see you there okay and you call your friend at six uh you know um I'm
actually going here yeah this happened oh sorry I didn't call
you because they themselves didn't realize the Duality that will
exist and of course you will see um
when the such a person has younger siblings okay their development becomes
their real development becomes active when the siblings
arrive which becomes a very strong support system instead of them always putting effort into things and doing
things now that third house is naturally makes them do things without thinking I'm putting an
effort and because the third house now is very important in all aspects of
life from lawyers doctors astrologers um you know designers actor
everybody needs the third house so the third Lord being in the ascendant this person is going to
absolutely going to have to rely on the third house which is what nowadays online Internet social
media VR whatever the hell meta is bringing next or
Facebook um you know it's all it's going to develop but it's always going to be connected with the third house
such individual love sports their body develops they feel good when they are
dealing with some form of a combat they dealing with some form of uh you know exertion of
energy they will talk quick they will speak
quick now the third Lord goes into the second house second
house your trans transformation happens the moment you establish your
family the biggest transformation will take place from the moment you have a
family post marriage the other thing your entire effort is going to be focused on your family you're going to
do things to provide for the family taking care of the family and even if you don't you can't run away from this eff
is saying I will find you and somehow someway you're going to have to go back
back and put that effort into giving sustenance to the
family you will also see here third Lord being in the second younger sibling or
siblings in general especially the youngest to you will be in line to attain the most
assets from the family they need more of resource than you from the family so
don't be all getting jealous oh my God you're giving it to the young younger brother or sister and I'm the oldest one
and I've been here doing this doing that no if you're if you're not deserving of something stop fighting because if you
deserve something even if you don't want it you will get it so maybe because of the past life
karmas a younger sibling needs to get more that's it if you feel you're not getting more
go make more go have more because once you fight to attain
something that the sibling needs to get now you're making a new connection to come back in next life now resolve this
issue so don't get involved in this issue you will see especially whenever
this person communicates whenever this person's talk talks okay this person is going to um be
focused on always talking about some kind of a value system you know there's
value in this this there's value in that they'll always talk about money communication always has to do with
family how to make money how to gather money how to accumulate
money because through their Communication System they can energize people to go after
money they'll be like oh no no no no you don't want to focus on God God comes later first have the Comfort first have
the money then you pursue God because the entire focus of your
communication style is taking place in the second house of accumulating wealth
you'll always talk to people oh how how do you increase wealth how did you make this money what did you do so in a way
these these people because their communication is always focused on money they get to find out a lot of
information because again third house is information so they're finding a lot of information on how to make money how to
create money so they're the ones who get focused on such
things and because again we see that third house you know is the neighbor at
one point you're going to somehow give money to the neighbor you're going to give them some valuable
resources and this always happens time to time whether it's this neighbor 5
years now from another neighbor you move somewhere else now you give value to that neighbor some value is given from
you from your resources to your neighbor
neighbor and because remember third house is eighth from the eth right so biggest transformation comes
in if you want the positive transformation remember when I was tell telling you about the younger sibling
taking the money let them take it the moment they take it now your big transformation comes
in now your transformation comes in so don't get stuck about why am I not getting it you can mention it but if
they if if your parents or somebody say says look this is the situation okay fine they don't own you you don't own
them they don't control you you don't control them your money is your father's money is not your money your mother's
money is not your money they want to give you they give you if not
just clean your hands and leave cuz that means if you're if you force them to
give it to you now that force is becoming a knot in the spine which is a karma for the future life unless you get
lucky and you paid off in this life and so this person feels
exhausted because the third house of efforts is going 12th from itself is being exhausted one feels very
exhausted the same way a person will feel exhausted if the third Lord is conjunct the second Lord conjunct
Venus okay or Jupiter they feel like why are my efforts are going in
vain why is things are not happening and the best way to kind of
reverse that for yourself is to be like I don't care where my efforts are going I'm just
going to put effort whatever I do that's it they want to give it give it not give it not give
it okay so anyway guys this was my analysis of third Lord in all the 12 houses remember this is the part A Part
B and C will be coming in this coming week and so if you don't want to miss those videos make sure you subscribe
otherwise you can go to car astrology.com for my books reports and my courses on all the techniques and
secrets of astrology otherwise we'll see you later bye-bye
so ladies and gentlemen Welcome to our
fourth Lord through
houses in a beautiful setting so uh
today let's do fourth door through
houses remember I uploaded a new video
of bathroom remedies on my vastu course
okay so you can go check out at maav
viic astrology Academy there or on this
link here and you'll find that
information very helpful remedy very
very helpful after testing it um
literally very quick results it's far
different than what you have heard
so let's do fourth Lord through houses
so let's do fourth Lord in the fourth
house what does that
mean see fourth house first of all what
is a fourth house remember fourth house
is your peace your quiet your comfort
your Happ happiness it's a place that
you rest it's a place of
rest never forget that you love resting
in the arms of your mother this is why
fourth house is the mother where do you
love resting in your home four house is
your home land real estate including
even your rental apartment rental
property anywhere where you live let's
say you live off grade like me okay
where you love coming here where I love
working all day today I've worked all
day on my solar uh Greenhouse system
today uh and got it going so when I'm
not here water is pumping in so anyway
that and that's a fourth house fourth
house is your vehicle why because
vehicle gives you
comfort fourth house is luxury this is
why Venus Finds Its directional strength
in the fourth house it's luxury and
comfort okay and remember you know why
Venus find his directional strength in
the fourth house cuz Jupiter gets
exalted in the fourth house Venus is a
guru Venus finds his Direction as a guru
in the fourth
house so does
moon right fourth house is also
restaurants hospitals hotels all of
this so
now when fourth Lord in the fourth house
what is it showing it's showing that the
planet that is controlling the fourth
house from your ascendant isn't a
comfortable
position it's comfortable don't think
that my fourth Lord is in the fourth
house so I should have the Mansion like
Jeff Bezos or I should have a home and a
mansion like Taylor Swift no you know
why because your fourth Lord is in a
comfort you will actually see when
benefits in the fourth house okay it
shows the person is comfortable they're
like if they can find peace in a
offgrade small little property tiny home
that's it that's their
mention if you are in a comfortable home
even if it's renting for last 20 years
that's it your fourth Lord in the fourth
house is working because it's
comfortable where it is it's not
agitated it's not
ambitious the one thing that I will say
is that malefic planets in the fourth
house bring in Ambitions for Comfort
extra
Comfort extra desire for having
conveniencies
and malefics are what Saturn Sun Mars
rahu
ketu and especially more than even ketu
it is Saturn Mars Sun
rahu these particular planets will show
that a person becomes ambitious
ambitious towards having more than the
capacity of the fourth Lord so if let's
say your Saturn is your fourth Lord in
the fourth house well guess what it's
it's not only providing comfort and
giving you a stable place to stay but
you're still ambitious enough to fight
your way yet be patient fight your way
to get that bigger house so if you're in
a 1300 ft house you will be ambitious
enough to get that 4 5,000 ft home
fourth Lord in the fourth house will
provide the comfort of the home the
family the mother especially when your
education see when it comes to
education fourth Lord in the fourth
house can provide a comfortable
education whether that education helps
you or not that that's not that's
besides the
point it may not help you you might end
up doing some business you might end up
switching your education and getting
some additional certification that helps
you right the fourth house represent s
that education we receive in our
lifetime it's our
wisdom so it's a very comfortable it's a
strong position strong as in that no
matter what it'll provide you with the
stability now of course if there are
planets that are other planets that are
crunching this house then it becomes
uncomfortable even for the planet in the
fourth
house which you obviously those who are
my students in my n nandi Nadi course my
BNN course
they know exactly when a planet is
damaged when a planet is
good now when the fourth Lord is in the
fifth house what is happening fourth
Lord is going second to itself so a
person attains definite benefits of
property land real estate gains always
support wealth money through either home
or
mother especially through children cuz
remember fourth goes into the fifth
house children will provide you with the
comfort of vehicles and comfort of
properties one becomes very intelligent
towards learning something retaining it
and using it for their benefits of
wealth fifth house is really that
important House of wealth it is the
controller of lakmi because it's trinal
house
cuz remember Kendra is Vishnu Tron is
lakmi so here Vishnu which is the fourth
Lord goes towards Lakshmi to gain wealth
which means what when the wife comes in
or children comes in your wealth
happens so in a man's chart wealth and
wife provides children in a female's
chart having children will provide that
activation of comfort in your life so
and and at the same time wealth because
how does comfort come in it doesn't come
in for free anymore nothing is free
anymore it it it
costs so you will get the wealth to
attain that Comfort one's intelligence
you will
see one's intelligence is always somehow
controlled by the mother if mother said
something you know this is what's
happening in the world and this is the
reason behind it you will use that
particular information in your
conversation with other people you know
this is why it's happening in the world
and this is why it's happening
and you might find Comfort to fight for
that particular statement even though it
may not be
true but mother
somehow influences or somebody within
the family can definitely influence your
intelligence where that one thing just
sticks with you like yeah I remember my
sister my brother saying that to me yeah
I think I need to follow that
principle same way fourth the Lord goes
into the sixth house
here the happiness comes through
service you want property you want
comfort you want Vehicles you provide
some free service to people meaning such
person has to
volunteer has to give selfless service
whether it's in a guru's asham in a
church in a mosque in a
synagogue you go and you give yourself
in service because if if you don't then
what happens is you
find tremendous struggle towards
retaining your
happiness the other thing when you find
property usually if you find a disputed
property property which was in dispute
the court took it the state took it and
now you purchase that property that
property becomes very beneficial for you
versus you getting some um you know
newly constructed
property fourth
Lord in the 6th House shows us that
always keep a mortgage in your property
why because 6th house is
debt if the house of debt the 6th house
is active with
mortgage it'll keep you retaining that
property so for example you're a
multi-millionaire you can easily pay
cash for that property okay fine pay 95%
cash leave that 5% as a
mortgage so if it's a $3 million
property you leave
54% in that particular property leave 2
300,000 so that means now your monthly
mortgage will be like $800
$900 leave
it as it's active the fourth house keeps
active but here's the thing with the
fourth Lo in the
sixth you should not stay in the city
that you were born in you shouldn't stay
in the state you were born in and best
of all if you can move to a foreign
Place move in a foreign place but that
will decide on if the fourth Lord is in
a dual sign movable sign or a fixed sign
if it's a fixed sign you cannot you you
will have a hard time moving towards a
foreign country if it's a movable or
it's a dual sign you might move out of
state or nearby and if it's a movable
sign then you are able to leave and move
anywhere you want you have that
freedom your karma is not fixed at that
place you will you also see lot of
relatives will be coming and going in
your home especially when you were
growing up Aunts Uncles cousins always
somebody coming and going coming and
going coming and
going now that's a great thing you might
get annoyed if let's say your moon is in
K Dr you will get annoyed if it's around
all the other planets you will love
having those people within your
home fourth Lord is in the seventh
house your establishment of property
happens when the marriage happens
marriage activates your ability to
attain properties attain
Vehicles
okay mother would be strongly connected
with the maternal grandmother always
taking care of her always focusing on
her always wanting to give herself into
service to the mother the other thing
fourth Lord in the seventh
house okay um when you rent a
property okay rent a property let's say
you want to do
business okay and you have a property
you just bought let's say you never even
wanted to do business but the moment you
put that property on rent that's
naturally a business right that's a
income coming in but you also suddenly
activate your ability to do business in
some other uh type of a field or product
or your spouse's career
Rises suddenly your wife or husband's
career career is now Rising now I
explained to this in my naughty course
of when a person should not rent their
property okay let's say you're a cancer
ascendant fourth Lord in the sth house
you shouldn't rent your property at all
if you have two three properties leave
them
empty four the Lord is in the seventh
house mother is going to be responsible
for your marriage somehow mother's
suggestion you will look for approval of
the mother for your marriage to occur
okay and at the same time you will see
um spouse will control spouse has the
control of the hope whatever the spouse
says that goes whether it's a wife
whether it's a
husband it
happens what they suggest what they want
to do usually end up ends up being the
particular case uh for the
individual okay and you will see
whenever mother
travels or visits her own mother it can
activate your ability to get into a
relationship as well some kind of a
romantic encounter maybe not
relationship something becomes active to
meeting
somebody so if you're single 26 27 tell
your mother go visit Nani go visit
Grandma or even if Mother travels to a
farway plate it'll activate something
within your seventh
house now fourth Lord is in the eighth
house so fourth Lord is in the eighth
house you will see after your birth
mother dealt with a big transformation
and change in her life not just because
she became a mother that's with every
mother but major transformation change
would have occurred also you would have
suddenly because of your birth family
moved family
shifted the other thing your comfort
happiness always would come through you
being alone you being an introvert you
being
secluded one likes to be far away from
people in order to find their happiness
otherwise there's a lot of fights and
bickering look what's happening in the
background I'm talking about fourth
floor in the Eighth House my dogs are
barking at the other dog that comes down
from the hill what does that tell you as
the omen that if four Flor in the 8th
house and you're staying where you are
you're staying in the same same home
everything there's going to be nothing
but disputes and fights and
psychological warfare happening amongst
family members cousins Aunts Uncles
somebody trying to grab this somebody
trying to grab that the other thing
fourth in the e8th
house your mother's intuition is very
very
strong when it comes to your development
when it comes to the things that can
suddenly change your life
like you know like you want to change
your life you you you're in a situation
you're just you're 30 years old not
happening things not happening but
mother says something why don't you do
this why don't you start this particular
work if this is not working that pay
attention to that pay close attention to
that because that suggestion of the
mother can suddenly transform your life
transform your world now will that
suggestion be good or bad like I've
always like I said in the beginning of
the video those who know the nand N my
BNN course and know how to look at
planets when they're good or bad it's
like literally it's a 5-second thing
10-second thing but it's like you have I
have I had explained it in a whole video
it took a whole video to explain it but
it's a five minute thing once you know
that you know okay how the planet is
operating um you will also see with the
fourth Lord in the eighth house um
usually when a person stays in the place
that they're in okay lot of Plumbing
issues will be happening
there leak leakages of the bathroom
usually also fourth or in the Eighth
House some vastu defect will be there
especially near Southwest direction or
south or what is it
um West Southwest Southwest or west
southwest direction will have some kind
of a
flaw so pay attention to that as well
fourth Lord in the Eighth House
naturally why did I say that this person
is meant to be far away from home and if
they force themselves to be near home
something happens where you have to then
leave if you don't want to leave on your
own because the padha of the fourth
house being in the Eighth House fourth
or in the Eighth House lands in the 12th
house the seed the seed will sprout in
the 12th house you want happiness go far
away the moment you go far away
happiness becomes active Comfort
Vehicles nourishment good sleep
everything becomes active but if you're
where you are where you
are then it's going to be a struggle
then you feel depressed then you get all
these issues in your life you you deal
with these mental
torments because you're not going
towards where the seed is
sprouting so go towards where seed is
sprouting um usually you will also see
um mother becomes responsible for your
inheritance you having this position she
will fight for your inheritance if you
have four or five different siblings
she'll make sure you have a inheritance
why because Eighth House is
inheritance okay fourth Lord is in the
Eighth House usually a person prefers
taking trains Subways taxis Uber versus
having their own vehicle there's some
kind of a phobia that becomes active
about having
vehicles can you have vehicles sure
should you have have vehicle sure you
can depending upon how that position see
it's not about the fourth in the eighth
house it's the position of Venus which
is a
vehicle but this will give a phobia some
kind of a unnecessary fear comes in
related to uh vehicles and in home as
well some phobia fear takes
place then you have fourth the
Lord in the ninth house so fourth Lord
is the ninth house post marriage you are
going to move to a far away Place either
a vast place that is going to be
surrounded with a body of water or it's
going to be a hill hill or Mountain
doesn't matter what sign it is you're
going to move to one of these two places
ultimately now you may be moving three
four five times you could be 18 years
old 25 years old 26 years old but
ultimately that place that you settle in
will have one of these two uh particular
themes also four the Lord is in the
9,000 mother's going to be extremely
dharmic mother's going to be very lucky
person in her life mother's blessings
raises your own
luck if the more blessings you get of
your mother you get luck the more you
follow some female goddess Comfort
happiness is going to be given by
her doesn't matter you could follow
Parvati Dura Kali Lakshmi sarasti mother
mother Mary
Tara I'm sure there's many other uh
female sense in different uh cultures
and sex so H having your focus on a
Divine mother besides your own mother
you will see you're always going to be
just finding that
luck you need a place to say you find it
but also on the other hand we also see
the when you whenever you go on a
pilgrimage whenever you go on a
pilgrimage whenever you go meet your
Guru one of those particular
occurrences it could happen you can go
10 times but it will do it at least at
once mother gets sick now why is Mother
getting sick by you going to a far away
place you're helping your mother to get
rid of some knot of karma which is in
her spine in the back when we get sick
when we get some thing happened to us we
feel that it's the most negative thing
oh my God I'm sick oh my God I'm dealing
with health issue the thing is the most
clustered knot is being
untied so don't think that this is like
something that is bad happening mother
has a fever mother has illness okay you
will also see mother usually can get
into debt based on travels based on
gurus based on giving money to religious
places spiritual places she won't care
she'll be like if I'm in debt okay
that's fine I'll give this on a credit
card like you will see nowadays uh when
mother goes to a temple she'll pay it
off of credit card okay I'll pay it
later fourth the Lord is in the ninth
house usually one may deal with leaky
roof and you know who deals with leaky
roof if if you have fourth Lord and nth
house when you don't have Divinity in
your life when you don't have God in
your life when you don't spend enough
time kind of having a lovable
conversation with
god because this is the brah
mustan fourth floor in the 9th
house and aash where I'm sitting right
now it's a roof right but it's a it's a
roof without the roof that means you're
outside you're like you don't have a
home but what gives you that roof is
focus on God like for example you should
write love letter you should light some
love letter like a letter you're writing
to your mother after 20 years being far
apart and you can't see your mother
you're writing that letter write that
type of a letter
to whomever you believe in you will see
whatever things related to the fourth
house you are wanting needing or is
giving trouble will go
away it will go
away you know why I can say this because
I wrote wrote a letter to
Saturn just last month not even month
three weeks ago cuz I was having
writer's block I'm like please if you
want me to make this movie
help me write this script so I can get
this going and I wrote a letter you know
my dearest Saturn you are the beautiful
one you are the I don't know what I
wrote I still have it in my home within
30 minutes Boom the download happened
download came to me it was like a
download it was like in an instant I'm
like oh yeah this is how it should Char
this is how it should end and the middle
part is just the easy one when you're a
writer middle part is easy so I got that
middle part going I got I needed the
beginning I needed the ending and that's
it s but saton gave me the entire
download okay fourth or is the 9th house
naturally mother will be strongly under
the influence of the
father your decision related to your
home will somehow be connected with the
father even if you're in a western
culture father may be deciding father
may help you to get a property maybe
cosigning your vehicle maybe cosigning
something related to your education
Maybe helping you get a uh paying your
college and student
loans some connection with that will be
there with the father but this is why
when you are in a trouble related to the
fourth house go have a have a guru in
your
life go have a guru in your life meet a
guru that is going to send Blessing back
because the signal is going to go back
to the fourth house that you're doing
some right significance related to the
fourth
house then you have fourth Lord in the
10th house
well this most definitely shows um a
person is going
to usually require or love being out in
a field when they're in the office
they're not going to be
whoa that's a wasp right there but
usually they will not prefer being in
the office like environment they want to
be out in the field because of the
fourth Lo in the 10th house fourth Lo in
the 10th house very strong position for
someone to find Comfort happiness and a
stable job like government job
government career
Administration or political career as
well this is a very this is one of
simplest combination if a person wants
to get a grounded stable work related to
being a public
servant because you will be serving the
people of your home even if you're in
foreign land somehow you'll become a
diplomat for your country somehow you'll
be dealing with files and paperwork
related to your country the most or
people of your country will come to you
for dealing or somehow your department
will be dealing with that particular
thing it may not be in the beginning
ultimately it becomes
that Mother's career takes up because of
your
placement fourth L and the 10th house
mother is going to be spending more time
at
work you your home your vehicle your
comfort happiness is only going to
happen because of of your reputation
your success your
profession at the same time though
either father or somebody within the
home gains some fixed assets from
Father's family may not be father but
father's family
maybe uh for
example your father's older brother has
a big property and leaves a portion of
that property to you or to somebody in
the family so there's going to be some
form of a gain of property through that
but one thing we also see if you do not
work if let's say you are just home
sitting home not doing anything even
though if you have money you'll get
depressed you won't feel happy you will
have lack of sleep you always should
work you always should have some kind of
a project happening in your life related
to whatever it is that you do go out
help people somehow this person has to
be working for their mental stability to
always be balanced you're one of those
people who should never retire and even
if you retired do something else start
something else start some hobby okay you
retired comfortably pension is coming in
but if you still want to feel well go
out there and do something and
work that is going to be helping
you okay um then you have fourth Lord in
the 11th
house fourth Lord in the 11th th will
obviously will show
that after your birth mother had to deal
with some form of health issue but not
as big unless you're an Aries ascendant
then yes definitely if you're an Aries
ascendant write in the comment that yes
I'm an Aries ascendant moon is in the
11th house and either mother's health or
relationship with the mother heal was
will be up and down but if the fourth
Lord if it's not the moon then what it
shows some form of big change takes
place in your mother's life after your
birth also at the same time you may have
the best relationship with the mother
but suddenly the family either had to
shift or some major transformative
events take place within the family and
fourth Lord in the 11th house will not
let you stay in your home state it may
not even let you stay in the Home
Country okay usually a person will have
to you know
even live far away from the mother and
it's actually
better when you live far away from the
mother suddenly you will see if mother's
always de with health issue this that
going to doctor not sleeping well this
and that suddenly you go for a college
and you go out of state for college
within 2 3 months your mother's like hey
I'm feeling well I'm feeling good if
that happens just know stay far come
back and meet your mother but if you
stay far things related to the mother
becomes uh good you stay far you get the
comfort you get the Prof uh uh what do
you call you get the vehicles you get
the sound mental
piece so usually especially the state
you have to cross a border of the state
in order for you to kind of like just
find
yourself and even if you don't find
yourself fine you will get the Comforts
that you need and this person becomes
extremely social fourth or in the
11th they always have to connect with
their their mental peace comes when
they're kind of like injecting their
opinions and themselves into the
business of their Social
Circles they have to have that comery
with the Social Circles in order for
them to feel that mental peace they will
always like to arrange and volunteer in
places they like to be in service to
other people in other places in in their
life and only then they find their
mental
piece fourth Lords in the 12th house
ultimately you're going to go to
forlands being a far away place from
home your mental peace and happiness
comes through when you always visit some
form of a isolated dharmic place
whenever you are spending time by
yourself in isolation going to
monasteries going to guru's ashs
happiness comes in fourth the 12th
mother has tremendous amount of
intuition mother's very intuitive
mother's actually can be your Guru from
past
life fourth or in the 12th house boy
you're imagination is on another
level your abstract thinking and
Abstract intelligence and Abstract
knowledge is what kind of separates you
from other
people but the thing is because fourth
Lords in the 12th
house you will see you want happiness
you want
Comfort either you should always work or
at least study on your own things like
astrology occult mysticism tarot go
going to R&amp;D going to dealing with other
people's assets money researching
something do some research on your own
whenever you're down and you start
researching you're happiness will come
why because the padha of the fourth Lord
and the 12th house Sprouts in the Eighth
House your happiness is in the eighth
house so whenever let's say fourth L and
the 12th house person becomes astrologer
even if let's say they're just helping
people around them not making much money
because they have their own full-time
work you will see somehow they feel like
I feel alive I feel great I'm having
great sleep I'm having just the happiest
time of my life I don't the person may
not even have much but they'll be like
I'm I'm I'm okay I'm I'm I'm content but
when you're not dealing with such things
that's when the uncontentment comes in
that's when the uh
uncomfortable side of you know your mind
comes into play cuz you're always then
searching for something fourth Lord and
the 12th house is always in search like
they will always ask people or their
psychologists or friends you know what
am I missing you know I feel like I'm
missing something in my
life what is it that is that missing
thing and especially usually also eighth
Lord in the 12th house or fourth Lord in
the 12th house whenever they even do
simple meditation learn about
Tantra
okay do get initiated into some kind of
a specific yoga that they do great I
mean you will see this person
things just start happening the
happiness becomes active the happiness
just is on a different level mother will
go to foreign lands after your birth at
one point she will leave you and then go
to a foreign place and come back she
might even go for a long term like 7 8 n
months if fourth Lord is in the 12th
house maybe she had to shift for a
business father was home in the Homeland
while she had to be in Dubai she had to
be in us and then she was talking to you
everything and then she came back after
a year but there is some form of a long
separation with the mother that takes
place and it's nothing dramatic it just
it's something that could be actually
planned for your own
benefit okay also you will spend a lot
of money related to home renovating the
home buying furniture in the home buying
this buying that fixing this fixing that
adding this adding that that's where you
like to spend money fourth l in the 12th
house one will always at some point it
becomes a regular thing for them to
donate to a Monastery whether it's a
Buddhist Monastery whether it's a uh
Guru whether it's you know a Hermitage
of some Guru but usually they will
always donate to certain type of places
like the place that you're going to
donate you know it's going to be settled
into some isolated Place far away in the
middle of nowhere and that's the type of
place you will always donate to I'm not
saying it's good or bad of course it's
always going to be
good and because fourth Lord is not 12
us one's education can be towards uh
understanding Investments stock market
don't think fourth or the 12th is all
spiritual and uh meditation no no no no
I have seen so many times four 12 house
they're Geniuses at Investments Geniuses
at stock market and crypto and
trading that's where their education
kind of takes and of course like I said
for their education they will go to a
foreign place they will go to a foreign
lands to gain their education and it's
better
okay uh settlement of home meaning
family after home does much better when
a person goes far away instead of being
in the same place unless of course it's
in a fixed sign fourth Lord the 12 it's
a fixed sign then you can be near your
home then you can be at least not in the
same home but still you should be 2 to
300 miles away from where you were
born but if it's movable duel then yeah
then it becomes much easier that person
actually wants to go when it's actually
a movable sign unless of course fourth
Lord becomes retrograde you will always
whenever you go into the far away lands
you always desire to come back you'll
always missed that home well feel like
oh no no no my home is better is that
good or bad for you that you have to
look at the chart but on on the main
thing is that you will desire to come
back if it's retrograde you might have
just come back you'll be in us for 15 20
years be like okay it's time to get back
time time to go to my home place and
find my roots
okay so now fourth Lord is in the
ascendant and we already covered that
right uh did I cover
it yeah I covered it with the Lords of
other houses in the
ascendant so you can watch that
particular house when Lords of other
houses in the first
house but if you want to know I mean
fourth Lord is in the
ascendant your entire life gets
influenced by the mother you're always
thinking your your being is always about
how to deal with property land real
estate
agriculture one loves Vehicles one those
people who are obsessed with fixing
Vehicles dealing with vehicles will have
because the energy of the fourth house
is your being your entire personality
your looks you who who you
are part of your major part of your
behavior will be coming through the
mother even if you never knew your
mother her DNA has passed on it will
come because it's in the
ascendant and the moment you buy your
property or a vehicle your life becomes
life if nothing was happening suddenly
things starts turning you buy your first
car even if it was a cheap car now
suddenly you're also dating somebody
getting a relationship suddenly getting
from promotion you were wanting to go
into this particular school now you got
into that school so suddenly the
life churning of life becomes active
with the fourth Lord is in the
ascendant and then fourth Lord is in the
second house gain through the mother
gain through property gain through your
fixed assets and
savings okay will always the idea will
come through the uh through the mother
if mother's not there the moment you buy
your property your wealth becomes active
suddenly you start to not even wealth
you start to save more even if your
income stays the same you begin to save
more you begin to connect with your
family
more you will always feel like my heart
belongs to my family my heart is always
when I go and see all my friends and
family and cousins family reunion you
you value what your mother has taught
you you you value what your lineage has
taught you about your uh life and
philosophy you use that value system to
gain your own
money and then when the fourth Lord is
in the second house one can actually
have multiple lot of vehicles in their
possession cuz that is what your
possession
is and of course property like I said
becomes a strong part of that
possession property land real estate um
mother will have a big Social Circles or
loves interacting with her Social
Circles wants to go TOA like like wants
to go to Gatherings wants to go to
parties you know um now if there's
certain planets let's say fourth Lord
Saturn is in the second then mother will
have a very limited amount of uh planet
or limited amount of Social
Circles okay um here you will see
because of your birth mother bank
account would somehow increase it may
not be so much but somehow it will
increase and
stabilize but you will also see whenever
you want to save more
money you want to save money you want to
start getting money if mother's alive
from your
paycheck but if it's your first paycheck
perfect get something for the mother
but otherwise something from the
paycheck gives something to the
mother you don't have to do every
paycheck maybe you know every other
paycheck once a month get something from
that paycheck to the mother give some
asset to the mother and your fourth and
second house will start to
dance that's a simple secret no remedy
nothing gift something to your mother
gift something to your
mother because fourth Lord is in the
second house those who have been in
astrology will automatically know what
the what why I'm saying
this give some nice luxury things to the
mother your own wealth
increases fourth Lord is in the third
house again you have to go far away from
your home in order to find your
happiness far away from the home mother
will always be
engaging with your sibling always she
her focus is going to be on your younger
sibling she's always somehow either
interacting with uh neighbors spending
time with neighbors or getting into
disputes with neighbors and you will see
when you go to a foreign place when you
travel to a foreign Place somehow mother
will uh within couple of days can
interact with the neighbors and hanging
out with them or getting into a fight
with them depending upon how the planet
is you will also see fourth Lord in the
third house a person does not care
whether they have a fancy vehicle
whether they have an average vehicle
whether they have no
vehicles they won't really care they can
get it great awesome love it if not okay
fine but also with the fourth FL the
third house if you don't travel time to
time when you don't travel like for
example every other month you don't
travel let's say 100 miles or more then
what happens is some expense will happen
in your home where you have to spend
that money on that expense versus where
you could have spent that money on your
own enjoyment and
travel so when you do that you actually
help yourself not dealing with something
breaking in the
home because if you don't travel if you
there's no movement in your
life then somehow expense becomes active
related to home where it's a broken AC
some fan stops and now you have to
replace the fan some wall has ceiling
now you have to call somebody to repair
that wall those things will take
place okay so anyway guys this was my
analysis of four or through houses again
if you're new to my channel subscribe
below so you miss the type of vide and
we want to know everything about your
chart uh placement you can go to kol.com
under shop section you'll find all the
links and everything there otherwise
we'll see you later bye-bye
[Music] it's [Music]
Penny Penny penny look penny [Music]
look so ladies and gentlemen uh welcome to fifth floor through houses okay so
today we're going to be going all the Lords through houses so let's discuss
what is the fifth house first this way you get a better understanding of the
Lords okay so fifth house naturally is a house that is
controlled by the sun no matter what sign you have in the fifth house there will always be the essence
of sun in the fifth house no matter what house you put in
the fifth house imagine fifth house is a ground land owned by Sun and what
happens is different type of houses are built upon it you can have a Victorian house you
can have a maren house you can have an RV house but the land is owned by
Sun and if you know sun is the ultimate creation it is the
it is the fire of creation it's not just fire of the big
bang that just spreads anywhere it wants and everywhere it
wants the sun's power is more contained okay it's more
contained and because of the fact it's contained it's able to now create
something around it so this is why fifth house becomes the house of creativity because you're
creating something and what are you creating you're creating your progy you're creating children
your uh and and the process of it also is creative to create something okay
that can later on create something else it is a chain event so this is why we see fifth house
as being the house of children fifth house as being the house
of fun and games like you will play sports like sports is the fifth house
anything that you enjoy doing that you feel like this is my enjoyment this is where I just feel like
I'm in a playground that's the fifth house so what is romance romance is that
playground where you're trying to impress the other person but you're
always trying to show the fun side of yourself see nobody thinks that romance
is something when you're absolutely serious and angry unless if you're you're in like some weird goth
cultural you know fetish then yeah you might like that but on normal basis you
will uh just enjoy the fun part of it and fifth
house is anything that you love having fun
with whether it's your friends family lover spouse children it's pretty much
all the accumulated loved ones within the fifth house it comes
fifth house is also your intelligence it's not education it's intelligence education can be fourth
house you can also see in vic astrology education is the fifth house if you use
NTI it's the fourth house and the gain of that education is what provides you intelligence see when
you gain something like you gain knowledge of Jes now you feel like your intelligence has increased so what is
the this is why fourth house is the education and the gain of it is the fifth house
which is the increase of intelligence fifth house is also Monas
meaning anything uh what do you call any form of sacred words that you
say to activate something is the fifth house why because Eighth House is Tantra
Eighth House is the occult knowledge and 10th from it is the fifth house which
means the karma that is is being performed of the eighth house is in the fifth house so all the technical rituals
all the words that are being spoken during a certain type of ritual is the fifth house this is why fifth house is
also the house of rituals like last rights rituals is the fifth
house and fifth house is the known as the house of
Lakshmi lakmi is try Vishnu is uh quadrant or the Kendra
houses so this is where lakmi resides and remember lxmi resides in the house
of creativity lxmi resides in a house
where life becomes enjoyable okay so now you have depending
upon your ascendants you will have different signs in the fifth house and this is why if
you know especially in vic astrology what is your ascendant from the siderial side you can go to Caris
astrology.com where you'll find my reports on shop sections option six and Beyond Where in the report you'll see
what ascendant you have and of course remember I have uh uploaded November horoscopes on my Caris blogs on magav
viic astrology Academy link isn't going to be in the description where after a long time I've
put this and I will probably do this now every month there like I'll put monthly horoscope certain things in there so you
can check that out so what happens when fifth Lord is in the fifth house so um
fifth floor in the fifth house okay so whatever I just said about
what fifth house is what fifth house represents when its landlord is there
meaning it's stable meaning it's comfortable meaning it's happy with the
situation it has like fifth Lord in the fifth
house okay whether a person has one child or 10
children they'll be fine they'll be okay they'll be comfortable there's this
Comfort to um accept whatever is
given if if let's say fifth Lord in the fifth
house goes out and has Fine Dining going to sports maybe every 6
months versus when they see some multi-millionaire billionaire doing this on a daily basis they don't care there's
no jealousy they're just they're okay they're fine you see this increase and decrease
in our emotions and in intelligence or when we experience something only comes in when other
planets are sitting in the fifth house and when especially those planets are very hungry and
craving uh see creativity is also craving so any planet that comes in the
fifth house it's craving that house it's feeding that house it's feeding from that
house so knowing the characteristics of the planets you will know easily which
planet is really craving something or one is just okay with getting a little bit from the fifth house and
okay so it's it simply is a very comfortable house and um fifth Lord in
the fifth house the intelligence of the individual will work depending upon the
planet that it rules like for example if Saturn is in
the fifth house the person's intelligence Works in with very with a lot of
patience it's slow one tends to mature up later on
about how things need to work where Moon and Mercury from
childhood you can see this person is Just Born to Be an entrepreneur born to be a business person born to do
something crazy like you will see uh lot of people will say oh my God this child
is going to be something special this child is going to do something whenever Mercury and Moon are in the F
whether they do it or not because it's from the early um age their intelligence is just
ready it's ready to observe things it's ready to uh Sprout
immediately like especially Venus Mercury moon in the 5ifth even Sprouts
the sexual desire very early in a child now on the other hand fifth Lord
is in the house well if fifth Lord is in the sixth house you will see later in your life
when you are an adult when you are in your 50s or 40s or
60s yes you will have disputes with children you'll feel like why are my children my enemy and this is not like
some dramatic movie script situation or some soap opera where children are now
you know trying to get your property trying to get everything from you kind of like that amitab bachan movie
bban it's not like that is that there the the child is willing to argue with
you willing to make an argument and that argument can turn into dispute because now your ego as a parent as father or
mother gets into play how dare my child challenge me on this how dare they're
challenging my authority and you know like especially a lot of Indian parents will say oh my god
I've given birth to my enemy why why do you do this why don't you just listen to me these small little padels tend to
take place with fifth Lord in the 6th house but one thing it does show fifth Lord in the sixth out the children are
going to be making money somehow some way by dealing with disputes whether
they become lawyers whether they make money from disputed items or they deal
with other people's health and diseases to make money through and
part of your fifth Lord in the sixth house shows you have debt to pay to your
children so if children do take some of your things against your
discretion you should be happy no need to like hate your children no need to do
anything because whatever is happening it is happening because of some past life unfinished Karma that is coming
into play in this life and also you will see your intelligence only works the best when you're in the
most disputed situation your intelligence always gets
awakened through disputes awaken through challenges awaken through health and
diseases like when you're ill when you're um sick and you're ill somehow you're able
to figure out things in your life you know how people say I got sick almost on the deathbed and it just changed my
perspective I awoke you know it wasn't you awoke your intelligent begin to
work you're like oh my God I can just die I'm so sick I have 104 fever maybe I
should do this with my money maybe I should do this with my goals maybe I should do this with my children maybe I should get married and do this now the
intelligence is working and so of course you will see that fifth Lord in the 6th house can
make an excellent lawyer because a person knows how to gain through disputes how to win some battle through dispute their intelligence works that
way athletes can be excellent with this
position because they have the intelligence to deal with the opponent your intelligence also gets
influenced by your maternal aunts and uncles if they said something oh yeah
that's true if they said this is wrong yeah you will think this is wrong and you might even support the argument
um fifth Lord is in the sixth house you will also see
um father gains through their own father's property
assets or somebody in a paternal lineage will leave some asset and property for them
then you have fifth Lord is in the 7th house then
um fifth Lord goes into the seventh house here what it shows that a person
will always desire and their motivation really comes through the suggestions and
um ideas of the spouse one is always is either
willfully giving their intelligence to the spouse
or they're unconditionally always being influenced by the spouse
what the spouse says happens and goes also you will see that
the children will be very self-sufficient children will desire to
do things on their own and they are natural entrepreneurs they're natural business
people they even from childhood will always try to make a deal with the parents with the siblings
like okay I'll do this but what about you you do this you know it
it's it's their ability to negotiate their way into
things but also what happens is this is one of those placement where
a person person has too many desires related to their marriage and they do
not get most of those desires fulfilled is where their marriage does not do well
because they're expecting something from the marriage they're expecting that fun and that glorious
time from the marriage but then the thing is the problem is the fun time the
Romantic time happens but it requires effort meaning it's not something
natural that you tell your spouse hey why don't
we do this okay let's do this no there's always going to be some counterargument
taking place and then you're going to have to make an argument you're going to have to like put
effort towards getting that R man's
going and you will see when um fifth the Lord is in the sth house
usually post marriage this person desires to focus more on their religion
spirituality uh wants to focus on their higher studies than being motivated
toward wors the marriage because the effort it becomes
effort that's what happens children will naturally gravitate more towards the
spouse than you or they will be controlled by the spouse than you they
will be influenced by the spouse more than you on the other hand um you will see
somehow during the last rights
of somebody's passing away from your side your spouse may
actually do the ritual or they will be involved in the process of
ritual the other thing we also see is one becomes too distracted in their
education or in their attainment of progressing in their intelligence
through a relationship it becomes like a hurdle marriage and relationship becomes
hurdle for the intelligence for the individual okay
on the other hand ego will get hurt by the spouse
your ego is going to be shattered in the marriage for some one way or the other it will even if it happens one time it'll
be so strong so big that throughout the life of the marriage you will always
have that unfulfilled Blank Space of the ego
usually with fifth Lord in the seventh a person may either have a good
relationship with the spouse or good relationship with the father never the same or person will
have a good relationship with the children or good relationship with the spouse never the
same on the same token fifth the Lord goes into the eighth
house here the person gets interested in learning
about a cult hidden knowledge
secrecy research but these things don't happen
until the individual goes through their
transformation transformation happens and only then their intelligence
Rises and only after a big transformation children come into play
children become very secretive they've become very introvert
secluded hermit-like they want to kind of be in their own
space this
person it's one of those position with fifth Lord in the
eth the intensity of their intelligence can sometimes be their
worst enemy because they want to Chase and
investigate things to a point where they can cross certain
boundaries the thing is though because fifth Lord is in the eighth house this is kind of like the mysterious
ious dimension of black hole you don't know what's on the other
side you don't know what you're going to see once you cross into the Event
Horizon and that's what keeps this person's curiosity going this is what
becomes more fun you know the fun in games
become increasingly more intensified when they're dealing with anything which is and
mysterious you will see especially children will have a very obsessive
nature very obsessive nature towards going after the things that they
want and they need and they
like see this is one of those placements
that most astrologers are not able to cut through why because it's so dark and the
only light that can be shined in there is not physical light it is the astral
light of uh the third eye and this is why it is so important
to have the third eye awakened in your life if you're going to deal with Jes
because there are certain hidden clues that can only be found after this particular light becomes
active but also um you will see such people you know what when you talk to
them and you ask them what transformed you what are the things that transformed you they will say romance and sexual
encounters transformed me that's what brings them that change
now of course you have multiple planets sitting in the a house then there will be these multiple forms of
transformation that the person deals with okay also within the romance itself
even if this person is aware that this romance is killing me
this romance is going to destroy me they willfully get into that romance where they have to deal with
that death of oneself like not focusing on oneself but
focusing on the needs of the romance
okay and the thing is though the problem that becomes that this person can
only express themselves in Romance in a very private
situation very hidden situation secretive situation they can't just be
out there saying that look I'm romantic they want somebody to come into
their black black hole and experience their darkness before they can reveal
their light of romance and fun and even their intelligence like they they will be the type of people who will just not
blap things out in a conversation but will listen observe and then say
something and when they say something it'll be very direct and
straightforward so that's what the fifth Lord in the Eighth House does so then we have fifth
Lord in the ninth house where it will show that literally through birth of
children your luck rises in life there's a rise of your
opportunities fifth Lord and the 9th house will also show children are
Hunters they either may love hunting itself they might love archery itself or
metaphorically speaking they are Chasers like a child from teenage to an adult
will be on a hunt for something usually you will see with the
fifth Lord in the ninth house your child will desire to mold the
religious or spiritual beliefs for their own comfort and will make like new rules
related to what you have taught them or what they have
learned your intelligence naturally gets strongly influenced by either gurus
fathers mentors professors and this can be a very amazing thing or it can be a very
dangerous thing for example your parents told you to be very
patriotic to love the country that you're in to fight for the country that you're in but then when you go into a
university setting the same professors are now telling you the
exact opposite that how this country is suppressive this country is bad this country is racist this country is that
and you get either brainwashed by it or molded by it or Changed by it but it
will happen your intelligence is going to go that way and there's no like black and white
or right or wrong because one person may actually truly through their experience
think that this is this particular country is this and so you know to need
to know the truth and the other person through their experience of their life will say this country is this and that's
the truth so whatever you know um planets that are or the sign that is
placed in the 9th house with the aspect of planets will show is the education
that you're receiving is diluted is it
molded is is it you know incorrect or it is the righteous thing
uh that you're going towards like you will see especially
um well we have to see the planets for that
um before I say anything also the thing is your fun and
your adventure comes in through travel and like when you travel far away places also when you
travel with your father you gain the most knowledge the most perspective in
life this is naturally where Lakshmi
multiplies the goddess of prosperity knowledge and wealth
multiplies but your version of wealth and money is simply money in the bank
right and that's not what really truly lxmi represents lxmi will represent a a very
Serene comfortable clean and
um decorative environment and a creative environment that's what lxmi really says this is who
I am because the the version of luxmi that
you all have that even I had to a certain extent was actually the version
of kuir like you want to have the money in the bank you you should be actually worshiping kuar
lxmi brings overall Elegance in your life like even if this person is living
in a one or two-bedroom home when they have embraced lxmi
energy a billionaire will go into their home and will feel like wow this is like
the most beautiful environment I have felt this is the most Serene environment
I have felt I love being in your place I have a 20,000 ft home and I
don't feel the same way the way I feeled in your home see that's pure
LXI and I'm now lost as to why I said this and why I started on this
particular notion um also of
course fifth Lord in the 9th house usually will show that you will be involved in your grandparents one of your grandparents uh
last rights you will be performing their rights or you will be performing your
guru's last rights the other thing this is a this is
a position of recycling meaning whoever is coming in your life is from your same lineage and
you are from the same lineage you have been people who have been passed away in the same family Dynamics are just coming
back in your own life and the thing is usually such
people people love to attain their education and their
intelligence far away from home they do really well when they go
far away from home now if let's say you were born in one country or one state
and you're you're living in a different state or country then no matter where you are you're going to be fine because
you are already far from where you were born okay but um those who aren't if
you're exactly where you are then definitely you're going to be leaving with this position and the thing
is for You Adventure travel learning of higher knowledge is
what kind of turns you on in terms of your romance romance has to have some form of
involvement of such type of discussions such type of knowledge
that's where it just awakens and becomes alive because you feel alive this is
that one position that when in Romance you travel with your partner to different
destination different places suddenly something invokes where it shows you your identity and shows you who you
are okay so now we're going to do fifth Lord in the 10th house then you have fifth
Lord of the 10th house interesting position on one
hand if fifth Lord is in the 10th house can ensure success of the career of your children
especially if the fifth floor that is in the 10th house is in a good position the other
hand it also shows that after the birth of your
children either your own career Rises or you take time off from career you kind
of like put career aside now of course this
will most likely if it's going to happen it's going to happen in a chart of the mother cuz the mother is the most
important thing in life of a baby life of a child where the father is more of that
Hunter and gatherer okay and a baby does not really feel that same Vibe until they're with
the mother so you'll see these scenarios playing out okay with the fifth Lord in the
10th also usually you will see with the fifth Lord in the 10th
children have a strong desire to work early they want to get out there and do something early usually you know you see
like teenagers wanting to work or the parents telling them hey you need to
start working you need to start doing something you need to start playing a bill like especially uh I don't know how
the Indian system is or any other country but I I remember when I came to us by the
time I was 15 we could
work and the thing is me and our my friends got so excited we're like oh my
God we got a job at McDonald's and when I got my first paycheck I think it was like10 $ or
$200 I'm like wow I can buy this I can get this I can get that we're talking
clothes we're talking concert tickets we're talking shoes I mean so you start
to see that oh my God I no longer have to now beg and ask my parents for
something where I can have this is my money I'm keeping it full way okay also
your intelligence is going to be strongly connect connected with Society you get influenced too much with the
outside world now back in the days outside world was when you went outside and you were talking to people you were
talking to business owners shopkeepers when you went shopping when you're talking to your neighbors now the other thing that can
also happen is most of the time the only place you're getting influenced is where you're watching this video social media
so there's that influence happening although it's influence of the social media as the third house but remember
10th house is the world outside and when you're watching something on your phone it's going to be the world outside and
one day you're going to be sitting on your glasses and you're going to think you're in Paris walking through
augmented reality that is still the world outside is it is the 10th
house so one's intelligence will be strongly fueled by that you will also
see at the passing away of somebody within your family parents grandparents
anuns uncles with one of them you won't be uh present cuz you'll be so far away
from kind of accomplishing that ra last rights ritual for them the last right
ritual for someone they will become the obstacle okay um and the thing is for
you fun and games is anything that can give you some kind of a
recognition any fun and game that can boost your confidence your ego your
um image in the world you love that like for example you will not play a certain sport unless you know there's a lot of
people there watching you cuz that's when you start to do better that's when
you become very competitive you will see a similar pattern being playing out if let's say
10th Lord is in the second house 10th Lord is in the fifth house but we'll get to 10th Lord when we get to 10th
Lord okay um you will also see these people become
very good with dealing with mantras rituals reading a certain religious
books and practicing it cuz fifth Lord in the 10th house is a
placement of sad sad as in you're doing certain
rituals and rights on your daily basis it becomes like your daily routine to do those things so
such people are very good in accomplishing results from mantras accomplishing results from uh certain
form of sacred words okay
also uh you will see mother will always be there helping out other people in
distress especially monetarily MoneyWise wealthwise you will see also Father will ask Mother for
money a lot cuz usually father will let the mother mother control the money and will ask money for money from the mother
to spend on something as much as this is 2024 I I
still see that a lot happening and that's why it just based on chart to
chart and of course lxmi comes in through work you got to work you want to
make your money you want to have that all around comfort and happiness you got to get going and
working no one's going to come and make you believe in yourself no one's going to come and try to support you no one's
going to try to just hand you things you will not get things handed to you you
will work for them you will work for your lakshi you'll work for your lakmi that's
what this position is so
now fifth Lord is in the 11th house so you now we have fifth Lord in the 11th
house 11th house this particular place will show
after birth of children Comfort Rises money Rises gain Rises Social Circle
Rises you know um anything that you need and
want happens no matter what the condition is
of the fifth Lord you will have certain amount of desires
fulfilled okay fifth Lord is in the 11th house naturally you will see that your
intelligence always gets influenced by either Elder siblings Social Circles Network circles large organizations in
your life they're easily able to kind of influence your
intelligence fli Lord is in the 11th house person usually like whenever you
will see 11th Lord in the fifth house fifth Lord in the 11th house it's one of those position that at
one point you just will have everything that you need everything that you want okay um this is also
the position where a person always desires to
engage in conversations and talking
points connected to New Age connected to either New Age Technology New Age Era or
new way of thinking new way of doing things but usually you will also see
tremendous um influence
of esoteric knowledge with fifth floor in the 11th
house sometimes your intelligence can at one point in your life will take you into a path towards learning things
outside the social norms of society and outside the boundaries of your physical existence calculation mathematics and
physics where none of these things will matter after a certain point fifth Lord in the 11th house
naturally politics has become very strong for this person engaging in political discussions activist
discussions even fighting for children's rights Children's Welfare Children's Medical Freedom becomes very important
for this person
and sometimes though I mean actually you will see a lot usually you will see is a
difference between men and women and women start fifth floor in the 11th house their entire desire before marriage and general children with will
be children they want children they feel like I even if they're like getting to a
certain age and they're single they feel like they should just uh have inv vitro and just get uh have a have a pregnancy
or child that becomes a very strong form of desires and the desires also becomes
related to learning and education but also the thing is um
depending upon how this fifth Lord is place the too many Desires in life tend
to make this person sad because not every desires come true in our lives but they don't get that they they want every
desire to be happening have every desire to come true on the other hand these people even
if they're not somehow they have a lucky hand related to gambling lucky hand
related to stock market lucky hand related to sports betting even if they have no interest in
it somehow they tend to just pick the right things and especially you will see
during um transits of Jupiter and rahu in certain places it can do
that um fifth Lord in the 11th house once creativity blossoms when they're
connecting with other people connecting with other people becomes a very important part of their creative
creativity creative process and even their own Lakshmi that I explained in I
believe fifth Lord in the ninth house is where you should go and watch that to understand what Lakshmi is
um the the lxmi that they're supposed to have and get will come through the
Fulfillment of desires of other people you will see when you fulfill somebody else's
desire lxmi becomes active for you when you fulfill somebody else's desire your
intelligent starts Rising but especially your intelligence is very sharp when it comes to the
matter of society when it comes to the matter of politics you will also see um your
children or one of your children will be under the uh control of the
spouse control willfully giving their control or just being influenced by the spouse
their own spouse they want the spouse to have the
control over their decision- making so now we have fifth Lord going
into the 12th house so then fifth Lord is in the 12th
house here what we see is that one's intelligence operates on a very
High transcendental level see first of all the development of your intelligence will always take
place in isolation when you go into isolation when you go far away from home far away
from your known environment especially like I said
isolation you start to activate your fifth house like when you go on a hiking on a
mountain you are you know know in the midst of some business deal and you take a hike and uh you sit on a bench looking
at you know the Panorama view of the
city it begins to develop it something begins to awaken usually you will
see that this is the source of your intelligence and the influence of your
intelligence is to view things from a panoramic view anytime a person gets
cluttered of how they need to do certain things what they need to do in their life what they need to study they always
have to go to a place where they can see the whole Paran panamic view to understand how the consciousness
of their intelligence is working such a person can be extremely
intuitive related to um things connected with Investments financial investments
stock Investments such person also likes to give away
their intelligence to other people meaning they want to share what they know okay and it's the same thing that
can happen with even the 12th Lord in the fifth house is that you must share
what you have learned what you have known in order for your own intelligence to start
working so that means you're donating your intelligence right because 12th house is donations as well
it's expenses you will see when a person spends their money to learn
something that's when the real intelligence comes in for this person so whether it's a university whether it's
you know some school you're attending some course you're taking it'll always enhance your intelligence where somebody
else may take a course goes to University goes to school doesn't really
grasp so much but the thing is it's not just University it has to be something far away from your known environment
this is why this is one of those placement of a person attaining their education in foreign lands foreign places they become very imaginative and
creative when it comes to romance when it comes to loved one they can sacrifice things for the loved ones why because
the fifth Lord is in the house of sacrifice you're here to deal with sacrifice of such people or for such
people whether it's your romantic Partners children anybody that you love
okay cuz like I said love is a form of
creativity love always makes you think how can I make this person happy satisfied and even love me
more also with fifth Lord going into the 12th house um you will see one of the biggest
activations this person gets is when you go into a setting of a monastery when you go in a setting of a
monastery like it's a Hindu Monastery Buddhist monastery any kind of a monastery you your
internal ideas will enhance your internal ideas will start
blossoming okay because also 12th house is the well eighth and 12th house is known as the house of lus flower okay so
the lotus flower begins to Blossom when you're in such condition and such
places but also such people have their children move to a foreign Place far
away places from them at one point you will see especially when your
children move to a foreign place there that's when the transformation comes in so if your children let's say are
just living the lives and they're feeling like nothing is happening in my life mom what should I do dad what
should I do you send them to a foreign Place tell them go far away let's say you're in New
Delhi okay and you're established in New Delhi your children are growing up there
but it just things are just not moving for them they're just in that mode of not wanting that change tell them go to
Bangalore go to Mumbai go to Chennai go to Singapore
settle your life there and that's where you will find your success because in your chart it shows fifth Lords in the
12th house somehow even in your children's chart it'll show that they must go to a foreign place to get
transformation maybe their ascendant Lord might be in the Eighth House 10th word will be in the eighth house so that
means they're seeking transformation they need to have a change and in your because you are the creator of those
children right you're in a way becomes that part of that God Godly energy so
this is where you can advise them go far away if you want your change you want the transformation right you want to go
and ex excel in what you're doing go far away and live and this is what fifth
Lord in the 12th house will do even your lxmi awaits you in foreign lands lxmi
awaits you in Far Away places so now we'll go towards fifth
Lord in the ascendant so this is the next day actually not the previous day
these videos are so long that I'm like man I got to take breaks in every quadrant like 1 to 4 4 to8 8 to 10 10 to
12 now the first so fifth Lord is in the first house so your
intelligence is you your you don't even though you will hear
a lot of opinions a lot of things but it's you who's always going
to make a decision and it's you that nobody else can convince you unless you
want to be convinced nobody can convince you to do something fifth Lord is in the ascendant
nobody can even tell you what to study where to go what to do your
parents tell you you should go become a doctor unless you want to become a doctor you won because if you feel like
I want to be an aesthetic I want to be a yogi I want to be an artist I want to be
a or let's just say I want to be a crypto King you'll only do that the other thing your life awakens through
birth of children birth of children awakens your
life what is Awakening of life meaning when you feel it inside that oh
my God things are finally happening in my life doors are opening up for in my
life I'm getting recognized I'm getting my good money I'm
now able to finally get a nice decent car I'm only also able to find a good nice house for myself I'm able to travel
to destinations that I wanted to travel to all the punch becomes active in a person's
life the other thing um these are one of those placement that
shows that a person is being recycled in their own lineage meaning you're being reborn in
the same lineage that you've been born in maybe you were a great great great great grandfather now you're coming
back also the only person that can convince you or
influence you is your children so remember they're not going to influence you about education and
marriage and this and that CU they will come most likely after
that but your children if somebody asks you can you get me this you'll be like
NOP if you don't want to you will but when the child says it now they have the
strongest you know leash on you and that's influence on you and
also you will see your your own death ritual will take place far away from
home so when you so the city and the country
that you're born in your final rights will not take place there your final
rights will take far away from there so even let's say you go to foreign lands and your final RS taken there maybe then
your ashes will come back to India or come back to the country and be buried or something but your final rights will
be far away and especially you will see with
this fifth Lord in the ascendant you will you're the type of person who will sleep at different spots in the
home you'll go to the couch and sleep you'll go to the bedroom and sleep you'll go to the guest bedroom and sleep
sometimes cuz you know why you feel like just like a lion who just sleeps
any where it likes at 20 different spots in the forest or in the
jungle you're the same way okay
um th this is also a very strong position of a person who feels
proud when they learn some Mantra when they learn some sacred knowledge sacred
words and when you retain that knowledge you feel proud your confidence Rises
when you say you don't have confidence in life how do can I increase confidence in my life learn
some learn bunch of mantras starts reciting them become a master of what
they mean and you will see your confidence starts Rising let's say you're a Christian you have never read a
Bible read the Bible learn what the Bible's Essences understand its verses so when
somebody says something you'll know exactly what they mean your confidence in life
Rises so this is fifth Lord in the
ascendant now we're going to do fifth Lord in the second house so this is actually the next day because you know I don't like to I
can make an hour and a half long video in one go I take breaks so good morning
so fifth floor is the second house birth of children brings you money
money wealth Fame security that's the first thing the
other thing fifth Lord is in the second
house you know good food nice
food high quality food actually activates lxmi for
you meaning if you're one of those people depending upon what how your
second house is placed you'll be like I'll just eat stale Foods I'll just eat you know old food I'll just eat bad
quality food cuz I just even if you have money then you hurt your money but if you know you can
afford it and you know you have money and then you have nice good food wealth becomes
active also your children most definitely will also enhance your career
when they get to a certain point maybe they get involved in your uh profession or exactly what you're doing but their
ideas their suggestions will help you increase your money within your own
life then fifth Lord is in the second house you will only do
work the only type of career you want to do that is somehow connected
with the work being fun the work being um full of different creative ideas and
usually when you speak through speech your money will be
made lxmi is on the tongue your speech brings you lxmi cuz remember what I said
fifth house is lakshi your speech is going to make you
money okay also this is the type of position
because fifth Lord is in the second when you recite a mantra vocally especially related to Money
Money becomes active so if you ever get initiated into
a mantra whenever you get some kind of a mantra related to money and wealth most people will be like okay I did it kind
of work kind of didn't work these people will get the results in the time period
that is supposed to give the result in so let's say somebody says go do 6,000 lakmi mantras which 6,000 is actually
nothing I've done like 25,000 mantras within a month so in a month if you do
less than 6,000 which is like two or three malas a day
um you will see something will happen something will become active
also fifth the Lord is in the 10th house the professional life of your
children is going to be extremely strong and solid like they will attain recognition they
will attain Fame they will attain respect in
society and especially um depending
upon whether it's a boy or girl um one thing we see that especially if
there's a feminine sign in the fifth house birth of a girl activates lxmi if there's a masculine sign in the the
fifth house birth of a boy activates um stability and fame and recognition so
there there's a different form of the wealth that comes in meaning a person may not get cash but
they get a lot of fixed assets around them which means when the time comes to cash them out you will get money and
that's the only two difference that we see with fifth Lord in the second house
um fifth house like I said it's your
intelligence so your intelligence will naturally be
fueled by doing creative things and your intelligence gets
fueled with food this is why I said good food Rich
high quality food enable kind of activates your intelligence activates your
creativity and especially big strong Karma with students like this is the person if they were to open up a school
if they were to go and teach um naturally they they actually
make the best money as professors over time they'll make the best money as professors best money as
teachers counselors advisers life coach business coach uhoh uhoh uhoh
uhoh guess who's
here he it's [Music]
Penny Penny Petty luck Petty
luck then you have fifth Lord in the third
house well first thing it shows that the desire of your
children is going to be somehow connected with dealing with either Media communication information data
wanting to be self-sufficient fifth floor in the third house your lxmi actually comes through
these processes as well so when you when so let's say you can become a data scientist you can go
into marketing you can go into sales you can go into Communications you can the more let's say you do public speaking the more you let's say you go out and
talk the better your money becomes for example you will notice that
some billionaires are just very apt to talk in public they'll do conferences
they'll do lectures they'll do speeches they'll do interviews let's say for example like Warren Buffett Charlie
merer um Ray
doio Jamie Diamond right the more they out out in public somehow I don't know
if there these people realize I don't know what their placements are but somehow being in public life keeps
activating their lxmi maybe their fifth Lord is conjunct the third Lord in some house maybe their
fifth Lord is in the third house maybe the third Lord is in the fifth house they speak they talk and they don't even
realize that oh I don't really need to talk I have all the wealth and the money in the world why do I need to give you that secret why do I need to tell you
anything but then they're like something is just just happens and naturally they don't even put two and two together that
me being active in media somehow keeps activating my money cuz I mean if you really look at it from
the 1970s all the way up to 2024 where
Warren Buffett is now 94 years old he is probably given 10,000 to 20,000 speeches
and interviews and media appearances just look at all the I mean it's going
to be very tough to find out how many times he showed up but literally from the '90s I saw him coming every single
time on CNBC MSNBC stock channel ABC interviews here interviews there
articles here magazine covers there you're because remember fifth house is lakmi you're activating your Lakshmi
through those particular things and fifth Lord is in the third house
also shows is that one desire might be to
really understand um well the desires to actually gain as
much of spiritual and higher knowledge as possible
okay as much as spiritual knowledge as possible also
uh your siblings you will see your children will be very close to your younger siblings they'll get strongly
influenced by younger siblings this is exactly the case in my father's horoscope my father's chart
fifth Lord is in the third house so of course is fifth house is what creativity
and love right something that is very creative and artistic so he was an artist but his younger brother is an
astrologer his child which is me was influenced by the younger brother and
follow into his footsteps and I believe his um son is
also there that means his father so now the child will also be influenced by his father that means my
grandfather was also an astrologer Enthusiast so you see how this works so
somehow your younger sibling will be influencing the path of your one of your children CU overall fif house is
children and the thing is this person wants to have enjoying happy fun events with
their family with their loved ones they just love it there if if there's a gathering happening of loved ones and
family members whether it's Dali holy Christmas you know
um whatever it is Good Friday they want they Thanksgiving
they they want to always come together and be around such people because their creativity
Rises they feel this is this is why I work hard for so I can be around such people be around such admirable people
do you guys see this what is that orange thing that's weird also the fifth Lord
in the third house your intelligence gets strongly influenced by media so be
careful especially of Legacy Media mainstream media cuz 95% of things that they spew is
BS like mainstream media is not journalist they're just activists you got to understand I don't care what
country you live in your mainstream media that you see the Legacy
Media uh that is known as they're activists they're not repor reporters they if they're supposed to report
something they're going to spin it in their own bias way please don't do that and be careful
of the trash that you watch most of it on social media as well cuz you get very
strongly influenced by it unless you know you're able to discern a lot of things especially let's say if Mars is
somehow connected with your fifth Lord in the third house or Mars is a fifth Lord in the third house then you'll be very logical you'll be like okay give me
the evidence what's going on or Mercury is there in its highest exalted sign but
then it wouldn't be the fifth Lord but you will be able to discern a lot of things but usually what happens is
especially as children if you have kids with fifth Lord in the third house please limit their time or watch put an
app I forgot the name the app that I have my for my kids you can exactly see the log of what they're watching what
they're doing what they're who they're texting what they're happening because they you don't want them to be watching something dangerous and then trying to
replicate that because their intelligence is thinking this is what intelligence is my intelligence is
developing because of this be careful when you send your children to universities nowadays
universities are very anti you know country they teach your children to
become more activist than actually educated children like you know some of these students in
us they don't even know where Pacific Ocean is and Atlantic Ocean is they
don't even know the name of the seven continents they don't even know okay and this is something I have the evidence
for I know of someone in a university
level who says that these people don't even know what makes how many degrees
makes a circle I'm not even talking about radius
I'm talking about how many degrees makes one full circle 360° right some most of
these students in certain classes don't even know that but all they know is political
activism that's it so be careful with these Planet Replacements of fifth Lord
in the third house of where you send your children so now fifth Lord is in
the fourth house children get strongly influenced by the mother meaning your
mother your intelligence is always somehow dependent upon what the mother's opinion
is usually also it'll be the same way fifth Lord was in the fifth fourth Lord in the fifth house which I already
said you also see um most of the time a person always has
to go back and learn something that they have already learned in order to make make
their intelligence solid this is also a position where a
person when they go out somewhere to study when they go to a far away place to study they come back to their home
place maybe they can leave again but they have to come back to the home
place um this person naturally prefers to study in
home they feel more comfortable when they're in their home in their room
studying they don't like to be out in some professional setting and usually they love having
parties at home they love having Gatherings at home but it's also becomes
a very expensive um you know ordeal for them as
well whenever they do anything in the home like some kind of a celebration some kind of a anything they can even do
decorations it goes Way Beyond the cost of what they were
expecting okay and it it's a clear indication also um that children will
prefer living with their parents for a long time or at least one of the child
will they'll stay with the parents for a long time meaning which is
you you will also see fifth Lord in the fourth house one of your children will
definitely have a very strong face resemblant of your
mother sometimes it's both right but they will really have a strong resemblance of the
mother also lot of expenses come in on your
education and usually the thing is you will see most of these people will say that my money in education was wasted I
shouldn't have gone and done this or done that or I should have just did it this way like whatever they spend later
on they can regret meaning this person went to Harvard although Harvard what
nobody will regret cuz it's just a status symbol but let's say Somebody went to a regular school let's say
UCLA and they're like you know I regret going to UCLA because I could have just gone to some Cal State Long Beach or Cal
State Fullerton and achieved actually a better education for half the price and I could
have taken that half the price and invested that there will all be the be this type of like internal regrets
uh with a person okay but one of the things is this um a
person feels more intellectually um stimulated when they're studying
something from home and usually their intellectual stimulation will also come through when they're discussing
something with their mother okay so this was our analysis of
fifth floor through houses and remember my monthly November horoscope is now car
uh um channel. thinkink fic.com where cares Vlogs is and the link meaning magaby Academy so you can see your
pinpointed pinpointed predictions okay where literally in the
last two ones that I put on YouTube you can just look at the comments I don't miss those because I'm using some crazy
new techniques okay anyway we'll see you later bye-bye
[Music] so first things first um behind my smile
and my happy demeanor you may see here and there off and on I just know I'm very sad inside I am I'm a very sad
person right now inside because my dog Yash who started this Channel with me um
can go anytime I don't know if it's tomorrow I don't know if it's next month but it's
definitely the time is coming close so I just uh even if I'm smiling just know
inside there is a wounded man okay and second um I am going to be sugar coating
this quite a bit six l through houses I'm not fully I just can't on YouTube
disclose everything about this and pending Karma especially when you learn things like nand n you know so I am
going to Sugar Code but I'm still it's not it's not like it's not going to be true it's going to be true but it's not
do that atic spicy curry you know this is like a something normal that you can eat and be happy and satisfied with
thank you so ladies and gentlemen Welcome to our sixth Lord through houses
video so first let's start to understand what is sixth house sixth house
naturally The House of the shus the six forms of
struggles it represents any kind of a conflict diseases deaths
competition rivalry okay
including conflicts and divorces sixth house is the house of your
Kaa sixth house represents your Korea it's your ARA house it's what you have
to do on a daily basis to attain your wealth because whatever you do on your
daily basis the luck of it will show the potential
of money why because second house is
n from the 6,000 oh look we got Penny penny in the wilderness
Penny you love ddy I love you you're such a cute little
booies you want to talk about and 6,000 pets remember 6 house is pets and there
There Goes My Pet So 6 house is pet as well 6 house is
your gains in business why is sixth house gains in business because 7th house is your client right so a client
comes to you and they like something from you and they want to purchase from you what are they doing they're spending money that
means it's 12th from the 7th house it represents the gains for you it represents the luck of your
career how fortunate are you in your career that would be the sixth house
because sixth house is ninth from the 10th house sixth house will also represent
the reputation the profession of the father How well was his profession 6th house will represent
wealth of your children 6th house natur represents maternal aunts and uncles and the entire
family of the mother sixth house represents the
transformation of your desires like you have desires you want
to drive a Ferrari and you want to have a 10 bedroom mention well that's a
desire six house will show the transformation process of that
particular desire how the transformation will take place because only through transformation can you fulfill that
desire right like if you're making 70 80,000 a year you can't think of getting
a Lamborghini but until your life transforms and turns into something
where you're making three million year okay you can get a Lamborghini right so
that's that's the transformation on the other hand sixth house will also represents
the peace and comfort and happiness of your siblings
so this is what the sixth household represents overall now let's go through the sixth
Lord through houses sixth the Lord in the sixth house so here first of all
whenever the sixth Lord is going to be in its own house it is going to find
strength okay but what kind of a strength it's going to find the strength
and the capacity to fight with the sixth house which
means that just because sixth Lord is in the sixth house a person is going
to deal with the 6,000 related matters and will be able to overcome them
through the widths of that particular planet that is sitting in the sixth
house but on the other hand sixth house is also your pending Karma right Planet
which is in the 6th House shows there's something some unfinished business related to that planet in the sixth
house like for example with son it could be with a father Authority government with the moon it's going to be with the
mother travel food with Mercury it be little children kids Aunts Uncles
younger sister with Venus of course spouse wife
women with Mars younger brother male siblings with Saturn older brother
servants people who are under underneath you subordinates handicapped people poor people people who are in a very
unprivileged place there's some unfinished business with them rahu paternal grandfather lineage
foreigners and of course people who are going to be
outcasts there's some pending Karma related to that g will be maternal grandfather G will be anybody who like
either a monk Yogi spiritualist
surgeon or even a butcher these are both rahu ketu or Outcast Planet so six house will
represent that one has to deal with those things and of course every single uh Planet will have their own body parts
that they represent okay and based on that one
also deals with those particular things but one thing we
see okay and this is where the planets will really make sense when sixth Lord is in the sixth
house is that one is going to operate on a certain level like for example sun is in
the sixth house one will fight for their
children one will fight for their or not even fight one will be focused on developing their
children's income children's money
okay with moon your pending Karma will be towards especially helping our mother
in her most you know uh dramatic events of Health fights disputes so these are
different variations but one thing you know sixth Lord in the sixth house is strong but it has to deal with the sixth
house in order to show that I'm strong right you put a guard at the gate
and said this is especially some intr comes in which means now the Intruder is
to come so the guard can deal with it so it's kind of like both way
relationship one SE sixth Lord goes into the seventh house naturally spouse
will go to either many foreign places foreign opportunities visit to doctors a
lot okay naturally expenses come to the spouse
but also on the other hand this even shows this is one of
those combinations spouse was one of your enemies from past life who you now
have to make amends and live as a couple this is how this Matrix of karma
works you don't know what the relationship you have in this life what the relationship was in past life I know
it goes into that weird weird side of things but that's how it
operates also you will see especially in traditional family nuclear family sense
especially like in Asia India mother side of family will always
get involved in your marriage they can influence your spouse
or they can influence you regarding your marriage you will also see
sixth house is remember it is the house of your daily routines your daily routines revolve around dealing with
marriage dealing with spouse dealing with business okay
and again on the funnier end the sixth Lord in the 7th house can
show you know what is one's health issue they're going to say it's my
marriage that's causes me health issue you know uh but again it's it's it has
to do its job sixth house needs to be fed sixth house
says this I exist and every single being on this planet and wherever I sit I'm
going to have to give something related to that related to my significance and I
need to be fed so sixth Lord in the seventh May
feed itself with the spouse okay um and especially you will also see
you have debt to give to your spouse you owe your spouse things so
don't just be thinking just because you have this placement oh forget it I'm not not even you know want to get married or
be with someone because you actually getting married and giving things to your spouse you're you're actually
paying off your karmic debt from past life you got to understand that
you owe them things so because the 6,000
debt right you owe some debt you get some debt so that debt is coming to
through the medium of the 7th house whether it's you dealing with business loan debt which is always the case with this
uh placement but of course they're multi-millionaires and billionair with this position that can generate wealth
through debt but mainly it shows that one feels indebted to their spouse and
in a way this can be a very good position because you feel like you want to give yourself in service to the
spouse because the sixth house of service is in the seventh
so it has very positive implication in terms of you kind of writing your like
it's your Cosmic Excel sheet and your you're writing off your debt that okay I
paid this off you can't can't ignore it because it's still going to be there in the akashic records so when the soul
goes onto the other end it'll be like well you didn't finish this you ignored it here you have to finish this on this
life now or you're going to keep ignoring it well welcome to the machine it'll just go for
eternity that's how it happens and you will also see with sixth Lord in the 7th house
usually you will have especially in business clients who will ask for their money
back or if you want to not deal with giving
having clients asking for their money back you will see this with this position you should always give your
clients a discount once they have purchased your
product say here we're giving you this much back wait I thought your product was this much but now you're giving me
this much oh yeah just thank you for doing business with us this is our thank you to you we're giving you discount
then they will not be asking you for money back cuz something has to come back the expense of the client has to
come back to them so how do you do it you have you
give them the product they give you the sale but you also give them certain discounts when that money is
exchanged that's a little trick it's a naughty technique and trick so then
sixth Lord is in the Eighth House so the number one thing we see here but
the the the on the positive side this is a position
where enemy dissolves whatever
enemies comes to this person meaning human form
enemies they never surpass they always are either dissolved or transformed into
a friend you know many of times you I and actually have witnessed this uh even
in my own life where some of the worst enemies or people who are against you
ends up becoming your friend you know um they or either they end up becoming a
friend or they just they someh just disappear from your life they can never go and finish certain things you know to
damage you but sixth Lord is in the eighth house
obviously in-law somebody in your in-laws will have some kind of a chronic health
issue okay sixth the Lord is in the Eighth
House your in-laws will have a very strong Social
Circle strong Network Circle that they're always going to be influenced
by these are the people and and again this is not you this is your in-laws and your spouse's family they're they're
always somehow involved in some kind of an activity whether cultural activities um community activities corporate
activities you know those people who will always have some party to go to on the
weekend so you will see that play out with this position and then um sixth Lord in the
eighth house one of the hardest things these people find is to have a daily routine
you want to have a daily routine you can't you can try as hard as you
like and especially if it's Saturn who sixth Lord in the eighth house yes you
will be able to have a daily routine but what happens is usually some obstacle
comes in the daily routine for example person wants to meditate they set a
schedule I'm going to meditate every day from this time to this time something happens where
they cannot do it every day they might be able to do it three times a week at that particular
moment your daily routine is to always go to the shop and wanting to go to the shop and have your coffee in the morning
it just can never happen on a daily basis something happens maybe there's traffic now you can't go to the shop you got to go straight to the office or when
you get out of the office you want to go to that shop have that nice tea and coffee but now you have to pick up your
kid from some soccer school or some kind of a extra curriculum activities so usually the
plans they do happen but they're not happening on regular basis they kind of go into that deep
dive and also you will see your maternal an uncle one of them will be
intensely spiritual like like when you usually we don't really talk to our maternal zanan Uncle as much especially
in this day and age anymore okay I haven't seen my uncle
well I saw him when my sister passed away two years ago before that it was when my other uncle passed away six
years ago so you know it's it's not happening in there in that terms of dynamic but one of them will
be very like you will find out oh my God I never knew this about you you'll find
these mysterious uh Pooles from your aunts and uncles like
you never heard the fact that they actually met this sasi or Guru in the Himalayas when they went to rishikesh or
something and this person was 300 years old and they told them this about life this about I'm like how come I never
heard this they'll be like well you never we never really talked before there's always some
mystery okay and six Lord in the e8th house obviously shows the children will
mostly have fixed assets as as their wealth more than having liquid cash they will have like property they will have
like anything stored word of value they will have like land as part of their assets and
wealth okay so that is your sixth Lord in the eighth house next one is sixth
Lord in the 9th house so sixth Lord is in the ninth house this shows service to the guru is
your pending Karma father is needs especially let's
say if you have a newborn child and sixth Lords in the ninth house father needs to be in a place of
competition father needs to be in a competitive place even if not then father needs to like play online games
with other people a lot because if you don't then sixth
house is saying I have to feed myself here feed me I'm here oh you're not
feeding me well I'm going to feed myself I'll bring the 6000 significance to you
I'll bring enemies to you disputes to you health issues to
you but how do you avert that you dive into the 6th house six towards the 9th
house instead of it feeding you you feed it so okay I'm going to help out people who are sick I'm going to be in a
competitive space in my life I'm going to have competition around me I'm going to go to a place where people hate me
and that's when I'm going to that's where I'm going to thrive sixth Lord is in the ninth house have
your child always meet a guru help out a guru take like you know like
volunteering that happens in ashrams you need to have your child do that by doing
that your child is actually helping you feed your ninth
house always with sixth house you know 6th house is a daily routine daily
routine is in the 9th house every every day you and your children should read
some religious text whether it's the Bible whether it's the Quran whether
it's the bhagwat Gita the puranas anything read one or two pages every day
sit down and go over the pages two two pages you spend 15 minutes standing in
light at Starbucks to get your latte that you can't miss but you cannot spend just 15 20 minutes reciting two
pages of the Bible or the uh Quran or the bhagat Gita or something or the
cabala because you want to feed the sixth house you don't want sixth house to be feeding itself you don't want it
to take things from your fridge you want to give what you want to give
it and of course you will also see um father will naturally have a very strong
connection and relationship with maternal ants and uncles if you have have maternal ants and uncles okay you will see in your daily
routine you will always need a mentor you will always desire you don't may not
have a mentor but you will feel like I need to have a I wish I had somebody to show me these
things that's what happens and of course
um when you're old enough and your children have kids your wealth
increases if sixth Lord is in the 9th House of the birth of children your wealth
increases meaning whe when you become a grandparent but also every year you must
go on some pilgrimage you must go on some
pilgrimage there's spots all over the world you don't need to specifically go
to a certain country okay sixth Lord is in the ninth
house one thing you can also do start writing and Publishing articles and what
do you write and publish articles on it's on the sixth house how to resolve
suffering of other people make that your daily routine every week I'm going to say
something about something happening in the world and how these people are suffering you know like especially
travel photographers and journalist they can really benefit from these particular positions cuz you're
publishing things connected with the sixth house of disputes fights Wars
um famine and poverty and you know just all
the things we deal in this may then sixth the
Lord goes into the 10th house the sixth Lord is in the 10th house so this is um
now your turn your turn to deal in a competitive space surrounded with enemies surrounded people who don't like
you in order for you to succeed otherwise because like I said sixth Lord
needs to feed itself it's coming to the 10th house for feeding it says I'm hungry feed me if
you don't then I'll have to feed myself that means I'm going to bring enemies to you struggles to you all kinds of issues
to you in your uh work space especially when you deal with authority or bosses in that case what do you do you
have to be in an environment where you're surrounded with competition like for example in a financial industry
where where people are in commission people are Investment Banking everybody's competing to make that money
when you're in these type of environments that's where you thrive because you're feeding the six house when you're dealing with work that
is connected with let's say NGO when you're connecting with people who are let's say dealing with health issues
medical field debts F uh you know debts and Loans but this sixth floor in the
10th house doesn't mean this is what your career needs to be no matter what your career is you need to pick the sixth
house for example six swords in the 10th house doesn't mean
anything because it all depends on your career so let's say you're a lawyer well that's naturally you're in that space
you're you're fighting every day but let's say you're in it you're in
softwares well try to deal with a 6,000 related thing as part of your career maybe become an IT individual going into
Banks going into healthc care facilities hospitals okay anything that is dealing
with un and Wars for example there are many people uh that are working for Ron locky
Martin right these are weapon Manu facturing companies there might be drone companies there might be airplane
companies but they are making weapons they're about dealing with
Wars dealing with the sixth house like for example these are if six
Lords in the 10th house and you have other combinations in your chart and you become a police officer I mean this is
like this person just lives for their career they live to be a police
officer they love they're like enemies here like okay deal with it let's deal
with it athletes right but you must be in that
space of the sixth house but the other thing sixth Lords in the 10th house right so dispute is
coming with your bosses and uh authorities in your
workspace so what do you do you simply need to serve your
Authority you need to become a child for your Authority let them think of you as a little child
who will do whatever they say who will also listen to them please them every you know like kissing corporate
butts that's the saying right um this person needs to do that because
they have to be humbled sixth house of servant goes into
the 10th house you're here to serve you can't think of yourself as same as the
boss cuz their energy with you will not coincide unless somebody who has
ascendant Lord is in the 10th house and at the same time they're dealing with the boss and if they say something
return in return like no no no this is not right I think we should do this that person will respect somehow this
person's energy more versus when sixth Lord is in the 10th they'll be like wait a second why is this person trying to be so aggressive with me are they trying to
take my position now if let's say your ascendant Lord is in the 10th house sixth Lord is
in the 10 house then of course then you then you're going to have to deal
with the sometimes you can't get away with certain situations then you will try
to have your own opinion versus what the B you you don't want to be a Yes Man all
the time so you will say something and then in that case you will get into that dispute and there's no like going back
and forth when you have those multiple placements you know sitting but the one what is that now
what is the way you can balance this out go out and serve go out and give your volunteer
time into nonprofit organizations okay do that the other
thing always time to time ask your manager here do you have any work that
you want me to help you like I can help you this Saturday because what are you doing
you're bringing sixth house energy to the boss but instead of fighting energy
enemy energy you're saying I am the servant I am underneath you let me help
you out you have some extra work you want to you're going to be completing over the weekend let me help you out for
2 hours with this work and you have to do it if you want to see the
improvements of the sixth Lord in the 10th you're going to have to do those particular things and of course when sixth Lords in
the 10th house you will see after the birth of your cousins
maternal ants and uncles okay when their kids are born naturally when they're there when
they're present they're alive and everything your career is boosting and so always keep a good
relationship with your maternal aunts and uncle's children which are your cousins when you have a good
relationship with them you will keep your 10,000 strong you will keep your relationship with the bosses
strong next sixth Lord is in the 11th house when six swords in the 11th house you will see enemy influences your
Social Circles Network circles infiltrates your connection to get them
against you you will deal with that at one point you may not deal with that every year but you will remember these
situations whether they happen in your teens 20s 30s 40s 50s they will take
place six Lord in the 11th house one desires to serve the
biggest the biggest organization out there like Red Cross un right Blue Cross I don't know if Blue
Cross is actually an insurance company but sixth house is bat bam of the or
11th house is the bat bam of the sixth house six from the sixth that you know what you know who the enemy is
here think about it who the who's the enemy too many
desires too many desires become your enemy where it bothers your
consciousness because 11th house is eigh from the fourth house of your peace of mind when sixth house is there it's
irritating this desire that desire that desire and they feel like when you have too many desires like I get people who
want to get a reading they're like how do I become a billionaire I need to become a billionaire I cannot stand just being a multimillionaire and yet they're
they don't even have a job right now but they want to become a billionaire and now if you sell give them the truth
they're like oh my God my world has ended that's it there's nothing else matters in this life except unless
you're a billionaire that's what happens see how
see see how I'm connecting it sixth Lord is sixth from itself bad bam desire but
it's also eighth from the fourth house it's the death of your peace of
mind so desires becomes the death of your peace of
mind so what's the solution please have more practical desires and limited
desires things happen happen they don't happen they don't happen you will also see Elder sibling deals with tremendous
amount of transformation in their life when they deal with ups and down they'll deal with the huge ups and downs in
their life the other thing relationship with the Elder sibling Elder siblings at one
point will become your enemy even though they come back being your friend
again it happens and and especially you will see
definitely you'll see when sixth Lord is in the um 11th house when you will see
when you have a big fight with your Elder sibling find out if your maternal ants or uncles is one of them is sick
one of them got injured one of them is dealing with some health
issue you know and then as soon as they recover you will see your relationship
with the Elder sibling begins to improve maybe it won't improve but the animosity will not be there
that's how you want to look it look at this placement in such
way also um sixth sword in the 11th house you
will see your children will spend most of their money on their spouse on their relationship not even
spouse in their relationship they love spending money on them such people can go into debts for
to impress their Social Circles Network circles I remember this movie remember that movie of Amir
Khan bill right where his father is giving fake rupes and notes to the poor
people and then he makes friends with this rich person pretending to be rich
same thing it's that same scenario it's funny how that scene just came up in my head but a person is going to try to go
into debt so they can make connections thinking those connections are going to give them
something while it's nothing but seed of obstacle
it takes away your peace of mind because think about it the seed okay the Sprout
the seed of the sixth house is in the 11th and the sprouting happens in the fourth
house the um PA of the 11th or the six ends up
in the fourth house stop it cut it
out and especially six sword in the 11th one may even get into debt on behalf of
Elder sibling maybe you had to pay for their medical bill you have such a close
relationship and these are those pending karmas that you deal with in your life now six Lord is in the 12th house
so we've got six Lord in the 12th house right so what does this show us very
simple it's a very beautiful placement for somebody to focus on spiritual
practices on the positive side because 6th house is daily routines
where is daily routines going into the 12th House of spiritual practices in
daily routines this person needs their Solitude needs their isolation
time also your enemy always become enlightened after coming
across you as their enemy your enemy naturally get dissolved but at the at
certain point point also enemy will also cause expenses but they exit and they exit
being changed in a positive way but on the other hand let's not forget there's two sides to these things six FL in the
12th house daily routines can consist of dealing with addiction issues somebody who has to take a
certain pill every day somebody who has to uh do certain drugs something every
day now now sixth Lord in the 12th house you know um may not will not show like
somebody who's addicted to tea and coffee anything that you're you know taking as a
food it's more of actual recreational drugs but this doesn't mean this is the
position that does it there has to be other elements like you can't just make a curry out of just salt you have to
have other masalas with you to create that specific Curry also your maternal an unles will
settle in for lands will settle far away in Far Away
places also sixth Lord is in the 12th house the
more spiritual practices you do the lesser you're going to deal with your health issues because in a way if
especially we look at in the context of parash this is a prra yoga okay usually you will see when a
person goes through any kind of like uh sickness or health issue some improve movement always happens once you recover
from that sickness why because it has to bring something related to the sixth house and
then do something positive like reverse the result loss of that disease is
happening loss of the enemies is happening loss of death is happening so usually you will see when you go through
some hurdles in your life you will also see at the same time if you have death your death begins to
decrease some some element becomes active related to that but this is like I said this is the
most important um got to do spiritual practices daily
with six lord of the 12th that's your pending karma that's all your pending karma
is is dealing with this six dealing with your uh spiritual
silence and you will see how your all the things related to Deaths Health
illnesses enemies competition rivalry all of it
dissolves this is why I was actually mentioning in one of my other videos recently when some people actually I was
mentioning in that reading to someone you know when some people say as soon as I started doing yoga I started to improve my life
especially financially you should do it too and the only reason why they're saying this
because they have certain placement they have certain positions like for example they could have Mars ketu Venus together
they do yoga money comes in but that again these are very specific
based things it doesn't mean just because you're doing yoga is going to improve your wealth this is definitely
going to improve your sixth house related matters including your work not wealth work and wealth is
somehow connected with work at least stability is the 6th house stability is going to be connected with your work so
you must do those spiritual practices you will see you will see the magic don't don't believe
me I always tell people don't trust me test me when you see the evidence then
you see like okay this guy this this guy has something to offer into the
world same way six Lords in the ascendant so then six Lords in the
ascendant this is going to be this is a very interesting placement because on
the other hand okay this shows me if you have maternal aunts and uncles they're
you're going to have to help them in their most emergency of time which could be as simple as their car breaks down
they call you or they call someone else and you have to go pick them up in the middle of the road pending Karma paid
off but anytime maternal ants and uncles are in some serious serious trouble and
you know people are kind of not helping them you must go there to help them because remember what I said sixth Lord
needs to feed itself it's coming to you for
feeding and as I said sixth house is the house of chadus the six forms of you know enemies
that come in our life through Health debt obstacles litigation you know
diseases so naturally these things are coming to you so you deal with that now yes sixth Lord in the ascendant one is
always somehow dealing with some health issues some small health issues happening so how do you kind of like give
something to the 6,000 so it doesn't bother you it's very
simple give yourself in service to people who are sick give yourself self in service people who are
suffering either donate money every paycheck to some something connected
with helping out poor people related to their health illnesses diseases you know their
obstacles because here six L the enemy just comes to you you can go into the
Himalayas you'll find an enemy you'll create an enemy so then if the enemy is coming to
you what do you have to do so this way the house is not forcefully feeding
itself when the enemy comes to you serve them uh there's this
um I think this was in autobiography of a yogi or it was in Vive ananda's
biography that I was reading where a robber was coming to this
Monastery to Rob them and the leader of that Monastery put all the money gold
everything out along with the most delicious food and when they came
in they're like wait what is this like pick whatever you want take it with you
also we created these amazing dishes for you but just don't hurt any of my monks
don't kill them but you do it and we have prepared the best food for
you and you know what happened with that the robber actually became the
disciple of that Monas uh of that uh Rishi left everything behind and became
a sasi this is how you transform because sixth house is service sixth Lord is in
the ascendant enemies coming to you you go back to the enemy you serve
them sixth Lord is in the ascendant there's you must always like anytime you are dealing with
some form of health and sickness as long as you have somebody underneath you working for example
somebody who comes and cleans your home and you're taking good care of them
they will always protect your health they will always protect your body because sixth house is the
servant sixth the Lord is going eigh from itself that means when you activate the
sixth house it actually dissolves itself you see how simple this is no
need to wear any gemstones no need to go and donate something no need to go and bury something on the
ground nothing no need to go to this Temple that Temple you simply go to with the sixth
house let the you feed the sixth house instead of the sixth house feeding you
or feeding from you forcefully once you use that
analysis things just takes place and usually if six Lord is in the ascendant you would naturally align
yourself if you go into the medical field uh Fields related to debts loans
uh dealing with the suffering of others somehow some way whether you do it on a
volunteer time or it's actually your paycheck that you're making money from it that's
all and you will see you are now decreasing the negative effects of
the sixth house sixth Lord is in the 8th house
debt comes to you right everybody hates debt so what do you do keep a revolving
debt if debt comes to you then you will see somehow it also brings health issues
with you but if you just keep a revolving debt meaning you're paying your cell phone
bill your your electricity bill your uh you know water bill on a credit card and
you're paying it off in the next cycle then you're feeding the 6,000 say hey
before you bring any debt to me I already have my debt see look look look at my credit card statement and from there then the big
debt doesn't come to you you keep that revolving so there's benefits to having
debt okay cuz if you don't then it's going to force itself on you where you never wanted debt and now you suddenly
have a $2,000 debt now let's talk about sixth Lord in
the second house then sex Lord in the second
house so as you know there's this mechanism of feeding that happens six
Lord has to be fed somehow some way it's saying feed me
so then instead of it forcefully feeding itself you feed
it you should see the example I gave in the sixth Lord in the ascendant about the robber and the Rishi or the
monastery monk first of all your pending karma is
with family you have to take care of the family you cannot escape to become a
sasi you can go and become a monk because being part of on the
spiritual path shows that you have to be a householder sixth Lord in the second
house shows one needs to earn money one needs to go out there and make
money your ability to earn money and make money is part of that process of
spiritual enlightenment see we think of rishis and
yogis and think that's the path to spirituality but astrology actually teaches you the greatest path because it
shows you if you have something pending a debt it's going to carry on in this machine of Maya until you pay it
off so that means pay it off second thing second Lord is six Lord
is in the second house you should always have a revolving
debt you should always purchase something on credit card paid off the next month like for example automatic
bill cell phone bills water bill electricity bill all your apps
subscriptions put it there and when they go in pay it off keep it revolving and
six Lord is in the second house ride the enemy tries to put you in debt the enemy
tries to come and uh take your money
unless of course you have the sixth Lord affecting the sixth house then you make
money through enemy like Jupiter sixth Lord in the second house will aspect the sixth
house so you actually make money from that enemy sixth Lord in the second
house okay this is the reason why when you have a revolving debt you already
are dealing with the sixth house things on daily basis cuz if you don't if you're like I don't
want any debt I don't want you know any money owed I just want to be protected
then what happens is now 6 house is going to forcefully feed itself from
you somebody does something now you have to owe them give them money right
um you suddenly have some major thing happened with your car or something and
now you have to go into debt because you don't have that big chunk of money to pay for this car but if you kept that debt revolving
revolving revolving it wouldn't be coming in forcefully feeding itself from
you and six Lord in the second house go into competition the more
competition you have around you the more money you will
make because if you feel like I don't want any competition I just want to be the only one hair and that's
it then your sixth house is going to forcefully feed but because 6th house is
competition the enemy right you surround yourself with it when you surround
yourself with competitors enemies people who don't like you you make
money so the more people talk negative about you the more people try to put you
down you will see this person just keeps making money money money money money
money also you will see see after your birth your maternal aunts
and uncles would have moved far away and depending upon how your sixth
Lord is in the second house your maternal aunts and uncles luck would have um
started also sixth Lord in the second house your
children will always have money they'll always have money enough
money for everything before you and after
you six Lord is in the second house Nally your
most of the travel plans of your spouse dissolves unless you're the one making the travel
plans six the Lord is in the second house father would
be in service at one one point to government maybe later on did his own
business but father would have had um some kind of a connection or work or
contract with the government the other thing a this this
six sixth Lord in the second house shows after your birth in your paternal
lineage many many children were born for example before you were born
maybe one person was born 2 3 years back and this and that but after you were
born 2 4 6 7 seven kids would be born in the next 3 4
years and of course paternal side of the family's luck Rises
because of your birth because of this position and the other thing six Lord is
in the second house always speak about solving problems of other people when
you speak you talk about how to solve problems of other
people and you will always feed the second house or sixth house now sixth Lord in the third house
so then you have sixth Lord in the third house okay so that means now the sixth
Lord significance are going to the third house for feeding
so what can we see here many things the number one thing you will see is that after your birth your maternal
aunts and uncles their career became very stable if they didn't have a job they now have they they had a job after
you you were born enemies always tend to find your
siblings health issues can always become that war and battle with the younger
sibling or because remember this is
feeding either your younger sibling especially
the immediate younger sibling will always deal with debts
Health you know dealing with competition enemies rivals or they become your enemy
and rival okay and this is why it's very
important that I always said in all these other house Lords is to feed the sixth house
so how can you feed the sixth house cuz look you cannot control the lives of your siblings right you can't
tell them do this so this way my relationship with you is not bad they wouldn't care if if you cannot control
you can tell them sure but you going to control what they do or not do cuz how do you know they could be 200 mil away
from you are and every day you can say hey are you doing this oh yeah I'm doing this of course they may not be doing it
so the number one thing here is this you
must play sports go into a gym deal with
um especially working on your arms and again you may not do this
either for lifelong see the only thing is when symptoms are there then you take the medicine
that's the main thing so whenever you have issues with your younger siblings they suddenly have animosity
against you they suddenly have you know they're going against you if then you
starts playing you start playing sports against other people you go to the gym you start working out suddenly it starts
improving that particular condition six Lord is naturally the house of debt
so six the Lord is in the 10 uh uh is in the third house you will see um because
third house is not only just siblings but it's also travels it's your efforts it's your fruits your
fruits only will fructify once you have gone into some
debt your when you especially do business you will be forced to take on
some debt now you don't want this naturally to come about because if it comes about
naturally then you may be in a debt that you might be paying off for one year two years 3 years the best thing to do
here always have a revolving account with your credit card pay all your bills
on a credit card pay it off by the end of the month because when 6,000 is then going
to the third house for feeding you will see you start getting results in your life but if you have
debts you're already in a mountain of debts 20,000 30,000 first you need to sit and assess
how did these debts come about I had no debts and suddenly debts came in well because you probably were trying to
avoid debt and debt came in on the other hand six Lord is in the
third house especially one always have to deal
with certain obstacle when they travel doesn't happen every single time
but usually it will happen time to time like maybe every other time you travel some obstacle happens some delay in your
flight happens cancellation of flights happen also when when you
travel okay you will also see younger sibling gets into some form of health
issue also let's say for example you find out your uncle or your
aunt has been looking for work they've been laid off what do you tell them oh go to
ks for a reading no you don't need to do that simply you travel go 100 miles or
more go travel somewhere see what happens within a week with your maternal
ants and uncles who are looking for work but of course they should look for work it's not like you travel and then suddenly somebody knocks on their door
say hey you want to get a job now miraculously these things could happen that they have happened happened but I'm not counting them as
one of these remedy thing no just a fluke but if they are applying for work
and then you travel far away maybe especially with third house you have to cross a
border if you really love your aunts and uncles you don't have that uh you know the work tight work schedule go travel
come back and see what's happening in a week or two with their particular employment and
only again you don't need to do these things and then find out what's happening in their work first there has to be a
symptom if that symptom is there then you do this okay also sixth house is uh
enemies right you got competition you got enemies how do you take care of them
because that's your pending Karma especially you will see when you
travel also when you're at a place in destination you can get into arguments with people you can get into some fights
with people especially with sixth Lord in the third house you want to be aware of pick pocketers like especially when
you go to Europe or any other country pretty much you're going to deal with
pickpocketers so you want to be careful of those particular things but also the thing is because
sixth Lord is in the 10th house whatever you were dealing with before in terms of like somebody's going
against you somebody's talking against you when you travel you dissolve that particular
Karma it actually improves situation for you when you
travel and this is why you will see a people who say oh I love traveling because whenever I'm in some obstacle
I'll travel I feel so good cuz when I come back luckily I always have all my issues
resolved that's because instead of the sixth house feeding you or feeding forcefully in your third house you
already are feeding your third house okay and sixth Lord in the third
house okay you'll see when this person communicates when this person
writes it always gets them in some controversy like they have a lot of
people stand against them when they're right when they say something a lot of times that happens
right look at a person's chart if you know their time some writer Some author somebody on influencer set something and
now the whole world is against them them they make many enemies so you will
see either from even the ascendant or the moon the sixth Lord will be in the third
house so now we see sixth Lord in the fourth house so then sixth Lord is in
the fourth house so of course it shows this is one of those placement that the mother has always dealt with enemies
obstacles health issues okay it also shows that naturally
the siblings of the mother will always be there to help your mother but if there's a malefic impact
on it then siblings are coming to your mother for disputes so it can go either
way the other thing sixth Lord in the fourth house naturally a person and this is
something now I can't even say this this belongs to this particular Lord hous ship
because back in the days you could say that you're going to have to take a loan in order to buy a property
but now 99% of properties out there are on loans and mortgages only a very few
people can pay full cash to get a property so it's not like one of those
magical uh analysis and prediction but before yes it was used to be this
because before like either your your ancestor left you a property your parents left you a property you
accumulated the money and then you bought a property or land and build your home there cuz it was so cheap back then
uh but at the at the same time sixth Lord in the fourth house shows you will
get opportunities in your life to get a property which is under
dispute which is under like let's say a bank-owned property legally disputed
property and because the dispute is now being settled they're wanting to sell the property and whoever has sixth Lord
in the fourth house will be the first one to hear about it or get the chance to bid on that particular property
so usually if you are having a hard time because see the planet of obstacles is
going to feed in the fourth house it's going to give you obstacles related to getting property getting vehicles so
what do you do number one if you're having let's a problem like you know we just can't get a property everybody buys
it before we bid on it what's going on look for a property which is or wasn't
dispute or especially bank owned because that's a disputed property was foreclosed on
those are the properties you'll be able to get with this particular position six Lo in the 4th house always
either try to get a used car in a good condition or especially when you get a new car brand new car you will always
see if you don't do something on your own some scratch comes in some scratch will always come in your car in the
first week which will be noticeable so what is it said so if let's say you have a back of the bumper like okay like
bottom of the bumper of your car where nobody can see anything right where your
trunk is you open the trunk and it's the bottom in there you can put a small scratch so this way now you're feeding
the sixth house cuz what did I say you have to either feed the sixth house or sixth house is going to come and feed
itself forcefully take food from the fridge and I've given that story
and if you watch my sixth Lord in the ascendant
all right six Lord in the ascendant or six yeah watch my six
Lord in the ascendant I talk about this uh story of Monk and the robber so you get a better understanding
of it okay but sixth Lord also going into the fourth
house it usually also shows um that within your home especially when
you were living with your mother and now I'm not talking about the home now but when you were Liv living with
your parents and your mother you would have seen fight disputes with the neighbors whatever happened and the
other thing six Lord in the 4th house whenever your uh aunts and uncles came into your
home to visit your mother after they left maybe 3 days 4 days later mother got sick mother didn't feel good or
especially nowadays you can say mother bought something on a credit card mother put some debt
on okay so this is how you can look at the sixth Lord in the fourth house
next finally it's going to be sixth Lord in the fifth house so fifth
Lord goes into the or I'm sorry sixth Lord goes into the fifth house that means pending Karma With Children one
has to actually bring children in in this life so you can pay debts to them
this is those that this is that particular um placement where a person will actually
be spending a lot more on their children so let's say somebody sending their children to regular school regular thing
this person will send their children to private school this person will put them into 10 different extra curriculum
activities they'll fully pay for their you know uh University and even after
they you know graduate and everything they'll give them a business in hand but also on the other hand okay so sixth
house is going to the uh sixth Lord is going to the F uh
fifth house which is second from the fifth house so usually you can see
children uh would be quite self-consumed like they want things for
themselves first before they do anything else they want things for themselves first
also your children will strongly be impacted by um your uh either
mother's siblings which will be in part their grandparents in a way you can say
or regular relatives like they'll be strongly be influenced by relatives Aunts Uncles cousins MSI taii this
that you know um their development uh becomes very strong related to that and
also so because sixth Lord is in the fifth house usually such people find major
problems hurdles in trying to attain education in their own home place and
this is you unless you leave go far away only then you're able to attain a smooth
sailing in your education sixth Lord in the fifth house you know what happens this is one of
those classic placement where as soon as you start your education person gets into a relationship
and then what happens is they go fall deep in love they break up and it ruins
their education this is one of those classic placements sixth Lord in the 5ifth the
uh Obstacle of Education becomes a romance cuz fif house is romance fif
house is education okay and so six 6th house which is 12th from the sth house the
pleasure of your spouse ends up in that they they get everything out of you
they'll have the Romantic time they'll have that deeply fall in love but they won't be the one feeling so distraught
when things break up or they will be the one breaking up so this is why it's very important if you're at that age you're a
teenag or you have a teenage son or daughter please tell them fine have
romance experience what romance is but please the moment they text you and say
we want to see other PE I want to see other people blah blah blah just tell them keep yourself on such a distance
that when that text comes in yeah go have fun I think you're absolutely right yeah we'll just we'll stay friends I
think you're absolutely right I agree with this too you're not ruining your education
because of this and this is what and this is becomes the
remedy sixth the Lord okay is in the fifth House of your
intelligence this is the person that improves their intelligence when they keep their ey on their enemy they learn
from their enemy they learn from their Rivals these are the people that actually will keep uh their enemy as
their friend because even though they know this person doesn't like me they don't want me to succeed they don't care but
I'm still going to talk to them I'm still going to pretend like I'm I don't know anything and I'm going to learn from them because what they know about
life business education technology coding I can't learn from anybody else
so your intelligence because fifth house is your intelligence how that intelligence Works intelligent works in
the being amongst the enemy you know like mavil says keep your friends close
and enemies closer this is that position also the more obstacle this
person deals with the more uh you know hardex this person deals with the better
their intelligence work like if this person feels like burnt out with the fact that nothing is there and I'm not
able to just really feel alive the moment they get into some kind of a tough the moment they some major
obstacle comes in their life now their intelligence is fully awakened why because sixth Lord is in the fifth house
so it awakens the fifth House of intelligence and sixth Lord is going to the fifth house for its feeding and this is why also important
sixth Lord okay is in the fifth house that
means you're going to have to feed the sixth house because if you don't feed the sixth house
6,000 is going to feed itself so here what you have to do is
that especially let's say when you have children put them in competitive Sports even if they're not wanting to be
put them in soccer put them in cricket put them in some competitive chess learning and then take them to I don't
care if they win or lose it's not about that it's about aligning it's about
aligning all also sixth Lord is in the fifth
house the only time you will see these people don't really have too much obstacles with education is when they're
learning anything related to accounting Healthcare or dealing understanding
Financial debts or foreign policies if let's say you're learning about foreign policies
so you can one day work in the government okay you won't have obstacles that's this is that particular
placement okay so this was our six through houses we'll see you next time with seven floor through houses and
remember I have done November horoscopes on Caris blogs on maav bology Academy
soon by end of this month I'll be doing December horoscope on Caris Vlogs as well okay we'll see you later bye-bye
[Music] so ladies and gentlemen Welcome to our
seventh Lord through houses series okay and
uh still I am the sad man that I said in my last series
video cuz again um yes is it's just he just slips
down he can barely walk he walks then he'll if even and another dog nudges him
he'll sit down on the floor and he can't get up but if he's on a carpet he's fine and normal so and this is the reason why
too I've taken up photography because that helps me divert
my mind like now because I'm doing street photography I'm like as soon as my work
is done here I go out like even every single night I'm like going somewhere
just taking shots of people cuz I hate AI pictures it's so stupid now like you
see all these like babies walking with lions and you know somebody's flying on
an owl it just no longer has any and it just special effects in CGI is just it's
idiotic and stupid now I think I probably want to make my Saturn movie without even CGI like that's it it's
just too over too over simulating anyway so seven floor through houses now what is the seventh house
7th house is everybody else whoever comes in
front of you like your client girlfriend boyfriend relationships marriage business
Partnerships 7th houses uh you know Mass Fame 7th house
is your success in your
career seventh house may represents your second child sth house
you know may represent your father's Elder sibling 7th house will represents
your younger uh siblings children I mean you can keep going on
and on 7eventh house represents loss of your in-laws and right when you got married
guess what happened loss to the In-laws happen why they had to spend money in
either grooming you as your groom or taking care of the wedding as you're
a bride so that's what 7th house ISS you know but if seventh Lord is in the
seventh house it's not like a simple like well
seventh Lord is in the seventh house so it's going to protect that house it's going to be comfortable in that house
it's a case but it still is not a case like for example when you see planets like
Jupiter Venus and moon in the 7th they disturb a lot of things I don't care if
Venus is exalted or debilitated I don't care if Jupiter is exalted or debilitated is going to be some form of
disturbance in that particular area Moon can be exalted that means if moon is exalted
that Moon's significance are very very strong okay so and then you obviously
will have the nodes and Saturn well actually I should be saying
Sun Sun Jupiter uh Venus and Moon are
tough uh Venus okay Venus the only reason why Venus is
considered 7eventh house as strong because it helps the
individual understand the ultimate truth of life when Venus is in the
seventh why is that because Venus is in the eighth from the point of its
exaltation Venus comes here to die Venus Venus is highest quality comes here to
die in the seventh house cuz Venus is exalted in the 12th house right in Pisces and it's the house of devotion
it's the house of service it's the house of spirituality it's the house of you know escape and you know
Enlightenment and 7th house is the death of it so Venus is like yeah yeah I
control this house but I feel dead i i i i this is I just it's like
you're taking an artist like let's say photographer and you're putting that
person in a law firm and law office and giving them all the administrative
duties and paral legal duties they will do it but it's like they feel dead
inside but on the other hand seventh Lord in the seventh will obviously will
protect a lot of things like for example in business you will always have the right clients coming to you the right
customer coming to you you will achieve your Career Success you know your second
child will be successful your Elder uh Uncle will be successful the children of
your younger siblings will be successful okay and of course 7th house
is also the father if you have both younger and older sibling the 7th house is the father as
well so it brings about those particular successes as well
now when seventh Lord goes into other houses this is where you know the main
Dynamic happens but anytime you see a seventh Lord in the sth house just know it's
comfortable it's able to fight certain things fight off lot of the the
um misunderstandings that happens with the seventh
house but just because a lord is in its own sign that does not mean at all that he
going to do well you can have an exalted son a Leo son in the seventh
house but there's only one thing's going to happen either you're going to have a good relationship with your father or your spouse you can never have good
relationship with the both the this thing will not let you do that
okay so now let's look at seventh Lord in the eighth house so when seventh
Lord goes into the eighth house first of
all um your entire married life is going
to be somehow get strongly connected with The spouse's family like you know
those people whenever a family function happens they will always come to your
family the most and it's your you know cousin-in-law
it is your brother-in-law sister-in-law and they're always coming
to all the family occasions versus them going to their own family occasions so
uh you know um time to time but they
will always get involved with the the family of the spouse the other thing
with seventh Lord in the Eighth House big big transformation and changes occur
in the life of your spouse okay big
transformation usually it is the it is the seed of bhagya
UD seventh Lord in the eighth why because the speed of the seventh
house is actually lending into the ninth house if you know the concept of uh
padha the padha of the 7th is in the ninth which means the seed is SED into
the eighth but when it sprouts it's sprouting into the 9th house that means bhod is
happening this also confirms both your second child
and the elder brother will make money through speech and definitely will have
wealth and money activated um in their
life and this is also the position that will show
that the moment you got married and and and literally I can be I can attest to
this I can be a witness to this because seventh Lord in the eth a person sing
get is interested in things like occult and mysticism and metaphysics and
anything which is just considered suo science okay which is stupidity
because everything is a science pseudo is given by people who though who are
not as intelligent and cannot understand certain type of Science and calculations
but suddenly that gets activated okay seventh Lord in the eighth house
the only thing that I see especially if let's say somebody's a Gemini ascendant then they're intuitive level
shrinks okay they could be highly intuitive but as soon as they get married they become more business type
than intuitive but this is only for Gemini ascendant because the seventh Lord Jupiter goes into the eighth in
Capricorn the other thing seventh Lord is in the second spouse is going to be excellent
at dealing with wealth dealing with money making money how to make money coming up with the schemes of
money but one thing I will tell you even though sth house is transformation
sometimes we don't know what type of transformation that might be coming is it going to be the best best of the best
or okay or not good okay um but the thing
is with seventh Lord in the Eighth House keep
everything related to the marriage is
secret okay try not to discuss too many things about your marriage to
people you know there's some people who just want to blow about how bad their marriage is or how good their marriage
is don't do that just keep it a secret nobody needs to know unless it's really
important and vital for them to know okay otherwise just keep everything
related to marriage a secret business a secret like do not talk about your business until it's sprouted until the
the the the the tree is there you don't need to talk about what your business plan is what you're
doing uh um seventh Lord goes into the eighth house this is
this is actually a position of a long life okay for the
spouse but it happens because of the marriage life is given
extension because life is gaining Mara Lord is gaining from from
itself and of course with seventh Lord in the 8th house if you have three
siblings if you are three siblings and you're the middle one after your marriage father actually
finds success after your birth father found
success anytime you had a relationship father found success
now seventh Lord in the ninth house so then seventh Lord goes into the ninth
house right so here what we see first of all is that on one
end it does bring focus on Divinity post
marriage it brings BH UD some form of Rise of luck in life
okay and of course because of this 7th L and the 9th the motivation of the
marriage is going to be towards Social Circles gain money Prosperity meaning
the main focus of both the husband and wife will be towards settling or at
least the person who has this they want to get their social status
high that becomes the motivation and you will not realize this until you have gotten married cuz you don't know what
your motivation is going to be until this particular Planet becomes active
due to the 7th house but on the other hand um what happens with 7th Lord and
the 9th too many desires bring
disappointments because here the motivation is that oh my God through marriage I will do this I will
accomplish this I'm working here and I'm going to marry somebody who's also working here and then they're going to
accumulate well and I'll accumulate wealth and we're going to do things together they have the entire thing laid
out and then there's disappointments why because here the desire cuz whenever you
have desires okay most desires will disappoint you
they will fail you because not every single desire will come uh come true and for a very few people all the desires
can come true so if your last name is Amani whatever you need is there and you're going to
anything you need is there to a point where you'll get sick of wanting to get at other
things that's a that's another form of depression you guys I don't think we have all will all experience this but
some do like once you have everything you have flown in private jets gone in the best hotels gone all over the world
and now once you come full circle like what else what do I
do do I buy a bigger jet maybe now that's what happens that's why you see these
billionaire CEO keep working keep working because they just otherwise they'll just get bored they have experienced everything there's nothing
new anymore for them that's why they'll start space companies because space is the unlimited
Frontier 7eventh Lord is in the 9th house most of your interactions of the
marriage will uh deal with your brother and sister-in-laws that it could be a great
relationship you know either conservative or a great relationship but your efforts are going to be put always
in pleasing the brother and sister-in-law if you deal with drama some drama will occur with the brother
and sister-in-law and then seventh Lord goes
in the ninth house you will see right after marriage e either there's going to be
some longdistance travel or what person naturally goes to some form of a dharmic
spot religious or spiritual spot
okay and then seventh Lord goes into the ninth
house right so what this person will do they'll ask they'll look for approval of
the father with marriage they always tell their spouse oh no do this do that take this for my
dad take that for my father he will love that because you're trying to
please okay and get approval of the father with the
marriage so it has all the mixed qualities and mixed things now let's
say um the other thing we see here is that
whenever you get a promote motion some kind of a higher distinctions either
will happen after you have taken some long distance trip or you have gone to some kind of a dharmic spot or you met
some Guru suddenly now promotion happens so if you are not getting a promotion you might want to do such
activities then seventh Lord is in the 10th house seventh Lord is in the 10th
house becomes very good for the success of the spouse it may not be good for your
success don't think that seventh Lord in the 10th house well my career becomes active
unless the spouse is using you in their career and it becomes your career
meaning after marriage you both do join business yes you will attain great um
you know results and fruits of that particular Karma but here it shows 10th house is 10th house right it's your 10th
house seventh Lord is in your 10th house so shows that The spouse's career
becomes very prominent the other thing this is one of those position
where marriage will suffer to a certain extent because spouse becomes busy with
work marriage activates the Workaholics syndrome in them or even if it's not
workaholic they'll just find so many interest that they're always busy and you'll feel like why is it that this
person's not giving me the time and that will be your complaint why because seventh L has gone into the original
House of Shany which is time and the time is being occupied by
work the person with this looks for a status all even if they don't care for
status they always look to promote themselves through the spouse with the status or do you know my husband does
this or you know my wife is a lawyer here they'll always try to bring that up in the conversation
and marriage gets strongly connected with mother-in-law mother-in-law plays a
big part in the marriage and it could be for the best meaning the
Mother-in-law taking care of your children you don't have to worry about daycare and
babysitter you know mother-in-law has a lot of money leaves
you money or especially has a great business business where she involves you in that business involves the spouse in
the business so marriage is generated through that seventh Lord is in the 10th
house most likely the mother-in-law is going to be a professional or she desires to be a professional depending
upon the circumstances and the culture that a person is in so like in Middle
East where sometimes they won't even allow women to work but you will find the Mother-in-law who will talk about
you know I could have done this this this I could have helped your father with this business and taken the business to this She'll always talk in
those professional tones like she has to
work and the happiness of the marriage comes in when the mother's law
is happy if mother's law is not happy somehow it just puts like this darker
Cloud upon the Ambiance of the marriage no matter even if you're living far you're like oh my God we got to talk to
the mom you got to talk to Mom you know she's upset about this and you will
focus on those things okay
and you will also see your father will gain tremendously through his um older
sibling he will gain tremendously through older sibling anything it doesn't have to be money it can be
something of value and the other thing with seventh Lord in
the 10th house usually you will see marriage may not happen with a big celebration but with a subtle
celebration usually a person get to get Court married and then give us a um you
know reception because again the marriage
which is that celebration time right is going to the house of Shany marriage is going to feel like a responsibility Duty
commitment sacrifice so even on the marriage itself will be more of like a corporate event
than like a social private event then you get 7th Lord in the 11th
house so 7eventh Lord in the 11th house and both seventh Lord in the 10th house
is one of those position of delay of marriage and marriag is work you want to
get married get ready for work it's the effort there not things
just not happens easily you can't just bring one flower to the spouse and think it's going to make her happy it's going
to require set of four other things that's going to make the spouse happy now on one end seventh Lord is in the
11th house so obviously it shows Destiny of children becomes
active and through children fulfillment of desires become
active seventh Lord see seventh Lord goes into the 11th house it
says I'm going to awaken your desires doesn't say that I'm going to
give you this because that's going to depend upon the condition of the 11th house but
it says I'm going to suddenly awaken your desires somebody who was let's say quiet
normal person okay with this simple job simple thing the moment they get married
now they're getting ambitious like I want a bigger house I want to work in that big Fortune 500
company I want this I want this I want this and if Saturn is in a great
place whether it's Saturn himself as a seventh Lord then what
happens is a person begins to put forth the effort towards those things they're not just no longer thinking in the brain
they're like I'm going to do this one can just talk marriage will awaken these talks
within months weeks he'll awaken these talks that now I want to accomplish this this and this before that and it doesn't
happen with everybody no not all the people get ambitious after marriage somebody some people are ambitious
before marriage after marriage something additional happen but here it shows that
main focus is the Fulfillment of desires but doesn't mean desires give
you the fruits but also on the other hand you know um big transformation happens after
marriage for sure what type for that we have to see the chart but big huge
transformation takes place after marriage it's actually bigger than seventh Lord being in the Eighth
House seventh Lord in the 11th brings about major uh changes and especially
although it can also show a major impact on your Social Circles two things happen either Social
Circle will increase or it'll decrease it'll never remain the same the way it was before
marriage so based on which Lord what planet as the seventh Lord is going into the 11th it'll be
impacted let's say for example it is you know um
Saturn Saturn will limit his job is to limit his Dharma is to limit your Social
Circle and only the Social Circle that can provide you with some form of professional status professional gains
or someone that you have to give your sacrifice to it'll keep those
people rest it'll get rid of sacrifice as in maybe your Social
Circle needs your help now and now either you may have to help them monetarily or help them find work help
them find more business somehow it's going to have that connection left so like I said depending upon planet to
planet it will make that particular difference and also spouse is going to be completely focused on children for
them it's about desire of children wanting to have children and they'll be engaged with
children unless you're a certain ascendant then you may just leave the
children upon the spouse themselves but I won't discuss that ascendant
here there is an ascendant that children are born they don't care
it's like wild wild animal giving birth and there like okay you whatever fine
I'll do this I'll do that but you on you're on your own okay then seventh
Lord is going into the 12th house seventh Lord in the 12th house spouse is
waiting for you in a far away place whether it's your own Homeland but across the country or in a foreign Place seventh Lord in the sixth
house definitely a person will deal with disputes related to Investments
expenses okay expenses and investments will be that cause of issues within the
marriage including even spouse's Focus becomes on
health whether they suddenly want to take a different diet wanting to work out rigorously
or taking trips to doctors like they're going grocery stores 7th Lord in the 12th
house it this is why this placement activates the person desire
for non-duality desire for letting go desire for embracing and wanting to know
God why because I don't care if it's Mercury going into the 12th house J going to the 12th house moon
going to the 12th house but the Essences the
essence okay that that energy is of Venus imagine just Venus going into the
12th where Venus is exalted so you're in a place of Venus and now you're going to the place
of Venus where it's exalted which means it's devotion one desires to be devoted to
the spouse but due to certain things one wants to now suddenly feel like I need
to be devoted to something higher okay so this is why you will see
like these particular placement can give struggles if there's too much desire because this is a place of letting go of
desires you can expect things from the spouse that you
thought and usually with seventh floor in the 12th house whatever the desire is
the type of spouse you get you get something different let let's say how I mean
people are like I only want to marry somebody in my own religion my own cast my own thing when will I get
married I'm like if this is what you want be happy stay single nothing is
happening because I can quickly see that's their desire and yet at 36
they're getting this reading I still remember this email where I even discussed it I think on Instagram or
Facebook at that time is a while ago two years ago where this person was so Adam
it's like I'm this cast I'm a Brahman I want Brahman I want somebody from this particular area of orisa and this this
this this this giving me a checklist and say when will I get married it's like they're they're thinking I'm Brahma and
I'm going to uh approve this checklist and give that to them while I'm seeing something completely
different and I'm like that's it that's you want this be happy be single because
Al and then later on they marry somebody still Hindu they
were Hindu but somebody from a completely different state different
cast and now they wanted to get some other reading I'm like well congratulations but
uh neither you're Brahma neither I'm Brahma what is sitting there to be done is going to be done
but you see how their desires whatever their desire was were
dissolved cuz 7 house Kama is the desire you want to marry the Priyanka
Chopra you want to marry the Angelina Jolie right um and you're getting some normal
person so all these desires that you're cultivating with the seven th don't just
let it go just be like marriage comes comes doesn't come doesn't come so usually you will see such when seventh
Lord is the 12th house such people are very desperate wanting to get married
cuz that's the teas the universe is giving and it doesn't happen but the moment you let
go I don't want to get married anymore I'm good I'm happy I have freedom I have
everything and I'm seeing all the friends and family around me everybody has issues I'm done and the moment that
happens suddenly somebody comes in your life usually that's how these things takes place
see probably after that person got a reading from me they're like well either I stay single if I want to be this
strict or I should open up
myself and so they went against that desire they're like all right fine I
won't get married I won't get married and suddenly somebody came in so now seventh the
Lord is in the the ascendant then um ascendant Lord being in the ascendant oh
I'm sorry seventh Lord being in the ascendant here what it shows first of all is that your spouse is going to
travel from a long far away distance to meet you now this doesn't necessarily
mean that they're specifically coming to meet you so for example you're in us the
person is in India and oh they're going to fly over to meet you no what it shows is that spouse would be born in India in
us right next to you meets you so you meet them and marry them now what
happens is initially that spouse traveled all the way to find his Destiny
to meet you even though it happened 15 years later and your entire life is controlled
and given in the hands of the spouse these are those people who are actually looking for a spouse that can just take
care of their life help them pay their bills help them you know um
uh make decisions about their clothing make decisions about you know what they should buy where they should invest they
love that they love that control of the spouse within their life and seventh Lord is in the
ascendant this person loves engaging with people their life is built around engaging with people they can actually
if other things are correct especially Mercury is uh quite well placed they they want to go into sales they want to
go into they they they're those people who will always say on their LinkedIn profile or will always say on their
profile of uh social media I love meeting people I love to engage with
people for me I love to network with people and learn more and know more why
because the client the professional client which is the 7th
house goes into the ascendant okay is coming to you they're
influencing you they're showing that you are something that is going to be developed through us this is why this
person feels that the more I'm engaged with the world the more I'm meeting people doing business one-on-one with
people meeting people in person especially the more I feel like I'm learning something I'm growing as a
human being that's what happens also the ascendant Lord goes
into the Ascend uh seventh go in the sun and you will see your second child will have very strong features as you
personality as you and character as you but you will also be influenced by your
older Uncle father's brother so one's life could be strongly
influenced by that now we go to seventh Lord in the
second house so uh with seventh Lord in the second house well not also but uh 7eventh Lord being
in the second house spouse is going to control the money number one marriage naturally activates
savings naturally this is also the placement where business brings in money
see many a time people will be losing money in business this is one placement that can actually help you accumulate
business or money through business is if you have the combinations for business goal you have to have combinations for
business in order for you to do that the other thing many secrets
of the marriage okay will be uh kept within the
family her spouse is going to love luxury things wants the Finer
Things in life will experience the Finer Things in life this is why we see that
post marriage money comes in so you can then do the karma of this particular
alignment the other thing not just find things find food you will also see after
marriage the individual whose chart this is their appetite
increases love for food increases and also um if a person let's
say is very detached from the family marriage
now brings situation that they will have to be involved within the
family okay but also like I was telling you about the secrets of the marriage the
thing is because seventh Lord is in the second eighth from
itself it's better to keep secrets of the marriage in a very small knit
because it helps you accumulate wealth because if it's eighth from itself you're going to have to abide by
the laws of seventh Lord being eighth from itself this is why we also see marriage
transforms a person's life on the other hand this does at at once instant it will take a
person closer to a big fight within the marriage where the other P will be like
oh that's it I'm done I want a divorce from you oh that's it I mean whether it happens in a light fight
or a big fight there will be that particular threat now this
threat does not mean that divorce will happen cuz for that you have to check something else the relationship between
Venus and Mars and Jupiter and Venus and Jupiter and Mars but this situation brings about
that and then what happens is after that situation the or you the individual will
make some dramatic changes to not bring about that particular notion
again the marriage gets transformed at one point so with this position if you get
too comfortable like oh I don't need to help my wife cook and clean I don't need
to help my wife do this they're just going to do it I'm just going to be watching my Cricket and my football it
will go to that point then and then when it gets to that point now you're going to be bringing that change and that
reversal in your life because what happens is usually after marriage the person just kind of
loses that focus on the marriage like oh I'm supposed to be paying attention to the spouse it's not just that it's my
mother or father that they can just never leave me no it's legalized partnership that's all it is they can
leave you then seventh Lord is in the third
house seventh Lord is in the third house your job after duty or not job your
reason for coming into this life is to bring about a change of luck in your
spouse's life when seventh Flo is in the third house you will usually get a spouse from a very poor
family not such an affluent family but after marrying
you they tend to suddenly get a dramatic Improvement in their life
it's like their bagio they happens why because you will be providing things to them resources to
them they never had before yet seventh Lord in the third house also will show
spouse is the type of person who can live in a hut because they have experienced such
poverty or such struggles in their life at some point that they're even though they're happy yes I have everything but
they're not afraid to go back to the same situation or be in a hut and live a
happy life they have a very higher caliber of
focus and thinking upon the uh you know life and marriage and
money but again I'm going to say this that it's
a it's like an onion layer you know this is one part of who
your spouse is the other part would be looking at either Venus or Mars and then I've
already made a video on the ultimate person that you get which is the dakara planet with the lowest degree
so it's just like all of these are layers one is a thicker layer the other is a thinner
layer but they're all layers and the other thing you will see post marriage
somehow area of your communication becomes active
okay communication becomes active and also self efforts you this person will
desire to do put their own effort into doing things putting their own effort into doing
business especially if you have a younger sibling you might start doing business with them post
marriage like for example in Leo ascendants Aquarius the seventh Lord
which is Saturn goes into the third and becomes exalted you do business with the younger sibling business
Rises naturally sign doesn't really matter exaltation debilitation but it does
confirm that there is going to be an upliftment in that area not only that
seventh Lord in the third the way it's placed it may not affect your thing as
much but it definitely changes the life of your siblings in
general whether older or younger one of them will see where
if your coin is flipping this way their coin could be flipping the other
way or both of your coins will flip together but there's going to be a flip
it it's not like you got married and the one of your siblings is just having the same life that you have
seen since before your um
marriage it is going to change and
usually also depending upon the lord of the seventh either it's going to be desire
for engaging with other people or no desire to engage with other people yet you'll be forced to engage with other
people so engagement is going to happen with other people communication is going to happen but the type and the interest
and how much Zeal there is in it that's going to depend upon the actual Planet
itself now let's discuss sth Lords in the fourth house seventh Lord goes into
the fourth house so of course with the particular marriage
the first of all you there will be absolute rise in a person's
life like especially in terms of recognition but also with seventh Lord
in the fourth house you act e actually seventh Lord in the fourth house it's a
very interesting position is
that usually either a person becomes famous or recognized a lot or your
spouse will somehow become the Catalyst of you being recognized known and known does not have
to be some Tik Tock star known does not have to be you have to be a YouTube star
known could be that you were not recognized in certain part of your work or business um you weren't getting into
a certain uh group meeting conference where you could now
be connected to certain people yet marriage or the spouse themselves
somehow contribute for you to not be recognized with the group that you wanted to be recognized
with seventh Lord in the fourth house this naturally becomes an activation
of ability to get property Vehicles fixed assets but also marriage
is now controlled with the by the mother through the mother somehow mother's
involvement whether you want it or not whether you like it or not happens especially if mother's in the picture
like for example you don't really want your mother to be involved in your marriage or your spouse doesn't want to
get your mother involved in your marriage now your mother's living separately father passes away something
happens now you're like well the inevitable is mother doesn't have
anywhere to live and they're going to have she's going to have to live with us so now without even though you want
didn't want it the circumstances brings you into a situation where now mother
will will have naturally is in a natural process of intervening in a
marriage whether it's even taking care of your children seeing you guys argue and fight and then giving her opinion on
it so those things get play but see the
fourth house being the house of
Happiness so marriage becomes this on and off button the activation of marriage will
turn the switch on for the fourth house now how fourth house is placed will
show is the switch being turned on for peace through the marriage or absolute
distress and stressful situation through the marriage because seventh Lord in the
fourth house will not just not determine it's going to be good or bad seventh Lord in the fourth house is saying my
duty okay is to come and feed in the fourth house and if fourth house is not
clean I will not make the marriage happy which is going to disturb your peace of
mind so it's how the fourth house is situated in the OR how the seventh Lord
is situated in the fourth house will determine will the switch is being turned on for peace or for absolute
distress cuz I've seen all I've seen it all okay seventh Lord in the sth house
I've seen it seventh Lord in the 10th house I've seen it because like for example seventh Lord in the seventh
house on one side you have Mars The Other Side you have KATU
there perfect seven Lord is in the 7th house which is also then causing mAh
yog maybe through that struggle of that marriage you become mahapurush but um
you know you know what I'm trying to say here that the simple Lord this
especially seventh Lord because it's the most prominent the highest karmic house
is going to shift and turn things this is why I've always said when you see somebody get married
who had nothing and suddenly now they're buying mercedesbenz they're moving to a nice home
you seen them success you seing them pictures in Hawaii and Cancun and Bahamas like what happened man who who
did they marry is this person Rich no the person could be as average but it is because they turned that fourth house on
is now experiencing that fourth house cuz the seventh house has the weight of
the the the 10 times the weight of any karmic house okay so if let's say seventh Lord
is in the fourth house you got married in a fourth Lord
Dasha I mean you can bet then that happiness and that the not even
happiness Comfort will become happy or Comfort will definitely
increase now seventh Lord is in the fifth house so then we have seventh Lord in the fifth house and this is the
position uh usually it's known as you know B off
a double edged sword on one
end it does show that a
person wants a marriage and needs a marriage that is like romance like
Hollywood romance old school romance and especially you know one actually seeking
a partner with this position whom they can have children with whom they can have uh you know pragnancy with
and uh it they like you want a
marriage that becomes this
playground you want a marriage that
uh becomes a place to have adventure and have fun okay
but on the other hand this is something that brings about a bit bit
of a difficulty in the concept of marriage what it does that
it suddenly brings about transformation that a person doesn't
want that a person feels like they don't need like for example transformation can come
in that a person has to now leave their country the person has to whoa that's an
omen I don't know if you guys can see that that's a spider right there a person feels like they're in the
web oh my God this is the most tiniest spider I've
seen whoa this is insane
what is this that's this is not a spider it's like a orb
what what is this what is this in front of my
camera and I can even see it with my eyes as
well this whoa this
is is this that's this is not a spider it's like a
orb what what is this this was crazy
so I just got a very strange Omen I thought it was a spider first but
then it was like a orb I don't know what to make of
this I don't know what it I I actually have it I might upload
it as a um short anyway so this woman that I saw is
kind of like a person gets into a web that they can get out you know like a
person suddenly has to leave their desired job and go and entangle
themselves into a position they don't want to but on usually this
becomes bit of a difficult position uh you know for the married
life because why am I saying this remember in the beginning I
said about the padas like seventh
Lord whoa this is is still hair that's okay
so the padha of the 7th in this particular case lands in the
third house and third house is the eighth from the eighth which of course not only requires
effort okay and fifth house is third from the third meaning in a higher effort to
maintain the marriage on top of that
um eighth house because it's the eighth from the eighth shows it's like the big
transformation that might be actually good for a person outside of the context
but within the context of mar for the individual themselves they will not enjoy it like
for example if I had to uplift my life from us
okay and suddenly move to like Europe Dubai or something it it's
it's it's it might look it looks like an adventure a new thing but there's fear so see because
Eighth House is fear so eth from the eighth is the third house the seed of
the marriage is in the third house so there's this natural fear usually you actually you all also see a person
actually has fear of even wanting to get married phobias towards wanting to get
married okay I'm seeing this orb
again this okay it's almost midnight so I don't know if it's I need I need to
sleep or something but wow I might put this on my
Instagram so anyway uh now we're going to do seventh Lord in the sixth house oh
now we see seventh Lord going into the sixth okay
so one thing we see is that the focal point or the planting of the
marriage naturally starts with work starts
disputes okay on the other hand marriage becomes actually 7th thir the
6th most of the time a person has to get married will get married needs to get
married in this life you know why because now there's a pending Karma with the marriage cuz sixth house is a house
of pending karma meaning you must owe something to this person you must give
something to this person that is Pro is from past
life and usually because it's the sixth house it can actually to be honest with
you it's even it's better than 7th Flor in the 5ifth because
here if the seventh Lord okay gets
into a good position then it feels like that the
marriage is a karmic Bond you know like marriage feels like how
did I in what circumstances in what world did I get
the spouse I would have never dreamt of the spouse and yet God gave it to me but
on the other hand just a little bit of you know tinkering with this placement
with somebody's aspect somebody's conjunction can literally feel like you're in a battlefield with the spouse
and the thing is though that Battlefield it's a there's a see it's it's not a battlefield it's
like one of those uh games cat games dating games where
always the marriage and the couple within the marriage play certain games to keep things excited so when they
fight the other person feels this rush like oh I need to make amends with this
person or vice versa because the seed of this particular house is landing in the fifth
house and so you will see such people are always will focus on creating children
we wanting to have many children because that's the that's where the the the plant the seed the the the
leaf is sprouting so usually from the
arguments and then making up comes about you know
um the coming of the children so this is one of those
placement that if the planet is good okay it'll feel like a very nice
Bond otherwise you know like I said it's a very sensitive position where a little
bit of it can just disturb things for an individual
um usually like you will see if Saturn let's say for Leo ascendant Saturn will
rule the seventh and the sixth so here Saturn feels comfortable by working hard towards the marriage giving his duty
commitment sacrifice towards the marriage in the same way where let's say
if it's Aries ascendant Venus the 7th Lord and the 6th here a person just feels this
complete criticism and ity with the opposite sex especially in a male's chart they'll
find women who will criticize this person nitpick things in this person
pick errors in this person but at the same time the spouse will be extremely beautiful extremely attractive will have
such great sense of humor that whatever she says the person will accept as yes this is true and they will mold
themselves they'll start supporting anything that this person does so when the person says you're wrong they'll be
like yes I'm wrong when this person says that person is bad and wrong yes that person is bad and
wrong so it's one of those placements you have to kind of see one thing you'll also see is that
your if you are three siblings father could have moved to a far foreign place
especially if you're a middle child also shows
naturally older sibling of the father would have left his home home place and
shifted to some Far Away place in life this also
shows um your children most definitely will gain their
success through communication media marketing sales
okay this is also the placement where your maternal grandmother would not be staying at her
place of birth would have to either uh shift to a foreign lands or
pretty much to the other end of the country okay so this was my seventh
floor through houses hopefully you enjoyed it next will be eight floor through houses next week all right we'll
see you later bye-bye
[Music] well ladies and gentlemen Welcome to our
eighth Lord through houses during this special time period of Mercury
retrograde and Mars retrograde and Jupiter retrograde although Jupiter is going to be going direct soon so yeah a lot of mistakes were made
trying to film this video I'm sure you saw my posts and all that so Eighth
House let's talk about eth house nothing to to be scared of okay
nothing to be scared of because it's not because I'm actually trying to sugarcoat
this I will give you my own example okay until my eighth house
period started life was just flat like you were hoping right like
especially before even majority of the social media took off you used to be
like oh my God I wish I could be in this place and this celebrity now was that celebrity I could be this thing and
nothing right back then celebrity meant something important now just nothing
it's absolutely nothing okay we pretty much witnessed that in the elections as well they have
no power being a celebrity word is like just a nuisance
but um it's that Eighth House that changes things for you you know when
people say when will I my life will take off when will this happen that happen
you have to have this earthquake come in your life you have to have this uh
shaking off your Bridge you got to have a tornado come
which changes everything it'll clean something off completely and then new things are built
on it this is what the power of the eighth house is you want to embrace the
eighth house it is that moment you know
when you go into the tunnel it's dark okay but until you cross the tunnel
in that train you can get to that big main city where your job opportunity is
waiting and remember Eighth House usually is known as a House of hidden
things and secrecy but that doesn't mean this is house is dark different we can make
third house the or or let's just say we can make 10th house the house of secrecy and hidden knowledge and Tantra does
that mean 10th house is like a dark house no because if you even look at it
astronomically sun doesn't even set in the eighth house that's the period 2 hours before the
sunset like pretty much right now the Sun is setting early like literally around 4 4 p.m. would be that sun's
position in the eighth house so it's not dark house it's just the its significance shows secrecy something
hidden something unknown but it's not dark it's just
unknown okay and this is why we are always afraid of that because we don't know what is the unknown but until you
go through this unknown you cannot find that change in your life 8th house is also represents the
gain of marriage so 7th house you got married right all your ceremony happened everything all the guests went home now
what that now what is the Eighth House what is going to be experienced in the eighth
house so 8ighth house represents the married life your interaction with the mar uh family of The spouse's
family right after marriage you're going to go to their home interact you'll have new friends cousins in-law cousins
in-law siblings and within four or five years it just becomes like a family
okay and then Eighth House also represents the treasury of the government Eighth House is
taxes because e8th house is 11th from the 10th house okay I mean we can keep
going on and on Eighth House will represents the blessings of your Guru why because the feet of the guru is the eighth house and touching the feet of
the guru you get the blessings this is why Eighth House is the most important house see you don't
go to a guru especially in our Hindu culture and go to a guru are like hey what's up
man thank you thank you bless me no it's not that the first thing you do when you see a guru you bow and you touch their
feet what are you touching you're touching the eighth house and when you
go down when your body has to bend over and down that's where that blessings
coming Eighth House is blessings okay so I always tell people
whenever they get like some Dasha reading something oh my God my 8 house Dasha is coming what's going to happen
I'm like whatever you were dreaming to happen can happen okay as long as you're aligned
with it so that's the eighth house and one thing I'll tell you with
if eighth Lord is in the eighth house okay and before even we get go
there if you need to know where your a lord is place just go to caros astrology.com on shop section and you'll see option six with the astrology PDF
report and everything else which is a reading you'll get the report and you'll see where your ear Lord is placed and of
course I've uploaded December horoscope on my Academy and I'm going to be uploading the 2025 horoscope for each
ascendant on Caris blogs as well and of course my wristwatch reading is now
active which I know I never announced it cuz it was the course but yes I have wristwatch reading itself but
anyway you know you want to know what eighth Lord in the Eighth House does instead of even going over every
planet 90% you'll feel like you're about to hit the ground
while going from the top okay like the roller coaster going down
down down down down you're like wait a second why is this keep going down it's not going up but the last 10% it's
suddenly reverses and goes up so whenever planet's in the eighth house
whatever you go through troubles you go through these issues because you weren't
aware of it remember eighth house is that unknown house you aren't you're not experienced in the eighth house so if
you're not experienced in the eighth house it's it feels scary oh my God what is this situation that just came up oh
my God my boyfriend broke up with me and now you're experiencing those feelings
that you saw in the movies you saw in the shows you saw with the friends but you just never knew what it felt now
you're feeling that it is showing that but the last 10% you will always see
planets in the Eighth House always get saved they get
saved especially you will see whenever Jupiter Venus are in the 8th
house or in the sixth house person goes near that point of hitting the ground
from the top floor and boom suddenly reverses itself but eighth Lord in the Eighth
House says listen I've got a cushion here you're
jumping right guess what fine it's a 200 ft jump I got the biggest cushion in the
world you won't even feel it so that's what happens with the eighth house and Eighth House eighth
Lord in the Eighth House people become over time very instead of like a mud the
mud that block of mud forms into a rock meaning you you can't make PE these
people go into fear after a certain while you know like you keep scaring
your younger sibling don't go there there's a ghost in there don't go there and then one day when they're like what
okay fine I'm just going to go there forget about going there I I'll sleep there tonight and after that your big
brother was just like all right yeah there's nothing there I was just kidding and now they don't have anything else to
scare you with that's what eighth Lord in the eighth house will
do now um the other thing of course is
going to be aigh Lord through houses so let's see what eighth Lord in the ninth house does so now eth Lord is going into
the ninth house okay so that means especially you will see father's life is an adventure
you know why what is adventure adventure is something thing where you are going into an unknown you're going to an
unknown place and you don't know what you're going to discover what you're going to see who you're going to meet
you know how the weather is going to be how the people the food is going to be so what happens with 8 Lord and the nth
th father experiences surprises in life father
experiences new things and naturally father would because of your chart
father has this layer on himself of an onon that adds on after your birth that
hey I want to experience unknown things whether they're naturally happening to him suddenly this happened suddenly that
happened or suddenly father like you know what I want to finally go to Europe I've never been to Europe I'm going to
go to Italy okay now after that they get their travel Buck okay now I'm going to go to
you know France and now I'm going to go see Swiss helps and especially because eighth Lord
goes into the ninth house it actually shows that one will suddenly meet their
Guru suddenly meets their teacher and this is where that placement
comes in where you meet the guru unexpectedly when all hope has failed
when you were searching searching searching for Guru and you're just like that's it I'm you came back from rishikes you came back from your
Himalayan trip because you wanted to escape home and you're like there's nobody here and you're working working working coming back to the main city two
two years you're just in in your regular life and boom suddenly now the guru comes in the entrance of the guru
because see 12th Lord is in the 9th house the entrance of a guru is
happening suddenly in your life the wisdom in your life happen suddenly and
usually you will see such people your luck in life you would have
noticed somehow always begin after some sudden event
happened or passing away of somebody within the
family when they passed away whether it's grandfather grandmother somebody passed
away but that passing suddenly changes your luck for the
better or first we don't know but what is the eighth or and the ninth house
doing okay that's so it naturally does that also
always when eighth FL is in the ninth house even and I don't care your parents does not do not have to be rich at all
they they can be even lower middle class just tell your parents leave me some
money in inheritance let's say for example in US
dollar $100 will be what equal to 3,000 rupees just tell them leave me 3,000
rupees as my inheritance but I can only get it after you guys have passed past or you give me the
inheritance at a certain point but you legalize it as an inheritance from a lawyer that my child should get this
3,000 6,000 10,000 whatever let's say maybe they're like okay fine we'll leave you a th000 and you'll get this in 2
years okay it needs to be 8 months minimum after 8 months say give my son
or daughter this um 8 10,000 rupees
check what happens is this when the a or is in a 9th house and you receive any
inheritance whether the parents are alive or not luck becomes active 9th house
becomes active that's what
happens also um this is one of those
placement children will become active ists children become activists at some
point in their life and children naturally with a lord in the n9th house
will find much happiness in education they love
studying they love to learn things they love to absorb things they may not have
a degree but they will be very uh book smart they would want to learn something
or books smart or like even Street Smart
then you have eighth Lord in the 10th house so eighth
Lord is in the 10th house this is going to be a place of
Adventure for an individual your work environment the more stable it is the
more steady it is the worst your career environment will be
do not ever look for a stable long-term desk job career with
this placement except a few places where your work which is steady
has something to do with dealing with research Insurance investigation and protection that's it
otherwise if you have eight Lord in the 10th house okay
and you are looking for a normal marketing management job you are going to get so frustrated because you cannot
seem to find yourself sticking to one particular place or the place that you go to just let you go you get
fired because eth Lord is saying I have to feed myself in the 10th house that
means I need to have Adventure in the 10th House adventure is something that you don't know where you're going going
what you're doing who you're meeting what you're going to be eating where you're going to be sleeping it's an
adventure right the people who are explorers or adventurers that means your
career needs to be full of changes like for example if a l is in
the 10th house and you work in Investment Banking you'll be extremely successful why because your career your
work deals with nothing but the ups and downs of markets
you're an occultist this is a great placement eighth Lord in the 10th
house you're dealing with uh Mortuary work with other planets great but it's
not even career 8 Flo in the 10th house doesn't say this is going to be your career it says whatever your career is
it better change constantly it better have something new constantly it better
have these elements of the eighth house otherwise you will just be frustrated and this is why you see that eth l in
the 10th house such people do very well working on contract basis like my own
one of my uncles has always worked on contract basis two years contract with
this company three years with this company 4 years with the company and he has spent almost my God 50
years 45 years to 50 years okay as a successful engineer
so don't think that just because there's no permanency there's no money no your
money is an impermanent uh work
environment but because that's the adventure you have to feed the 8 house otherwise 800 is going to forcefully eat
itself and you're not going to like it nobody's going to like it okay also with eighth l in the 10th
house you will see father's family would have gone through tremendous amount of ups and downs in their finances and
money not father himself but father's family father's side of family father's
side of family may have moved many times perhaps the grandfather had positions
that changed a lot on the other
hand mother's married life meaning life with your
father would always go through its tumultuous ups and downs like you would
have heard them arguing from the childhood then normal then fighting then
normal then fighting okay so it gives that
instability within the house of mother but also it is that instability that
also would spark the romance between the two like they cannot leave each other
now we see eighth Lord in the 11th house so eighth Lord is in the 11th
house so this is a placement where a person needs to settle their
desires why because they have the most unsettled desire
um you know the most unsettled
desire for themselves okay why what what am I
saying here is that their desires are never constant keeps changing changing
changing changing changing why because each desires going through a test and
when it goes through a test they don't want it and then something else happens so when you desire for
something okay your desire should stick to one
thing because eighth Lord is going and feeding itself in the 11th house saying oh you have this D now I'm going to do
this I'm going to bring this other desire and I'm going to bring this other desire up and out and so the best thing
to do is usually with eighth Lord in the 11th house have no desire have no
expectations Let The Mystery of Life give you what it needs
to meaning literally you should not have like these goals that one day I want to
have this multi-millions and I want to have this amount of property and this
amount of just work on your daily work that's it whatever is in front of you now
whatever needs to be achieved that's it and this is also shows with eigh Lord
in the 11th house uh either the Elder sibling okay will have tremendous
interest in speculation or if they if their life is not
conducive with the eighth house if they're not aligned with the eighth house maybe they're not maybe they have
a different Karma but because of your chart it shows if it's not aligned with the eigh house their life is nothing but
ups and downs they will also they're also very changeable
personality one minute they want that the next minute they want something else
this also shows um in-laws will have property in-laws will have strong
settlement of property and life this also
shows your children will have multiple
properties and eighth Lord in the 11th shows never ever rely on your Social
Circles never ever rely on your network circles why because your life isn't
about keeping the same Social Circles at one point they'll always come and go
come and go come and go come and go and right when you need them the most
they may not be there God will be there but they may not be there cuz this is
what you have to experience is whoever comes in contact with you that you know
professionally you will not be able to rely on them fully at all
and the people that you think that oh my God I know these 10 people suddenly their number doesn't work suddenly
they're no longer responding to you they move out of country go somewhere so the
the thing is half Social Circles half social life
just don't rely on them just don't expect again the desire do
not expect or desire something from such a place cuz that's the lesson that has
to be learned here that you cannot get what you desire I'll give you something we'll
give you something but not what you're expecting right so when you don't expect
something and you get something you're like hey great but if you're like I want this and it has to be this color it has
to be this way it has to be this and yet you get this now it's like oh my God that desire didn't come true and then
now it's settled in in your karmic cells for next life for it to fulfill at some
point so when you don't have expectations of the 11th you might actually make friends with Elon
Musk because you had no expectations that's what the eighth Lord
in the 11th will do same way eighth Lord is in the 12th
so eighth Lord is in the 12th house right please don't try to become a miser
do not try to become stingy why because this is the placement
of constant unexpected expenses number one which means you want to align
yourself right because 8th house eighth Lord is coming to the 12th house for feeding so what do you do always give
people surprise gifts number one in your family number two always give unexpected
donations to people or organizations number number three constantly keep your money in the
market so I don't care if you're making $15 $20 an hour okay you're working at
McDonald's making 15 bucks an hour you're making 6 700 bucks a week I'm not
telling you to put thousands of dollars into a market 50 bucks okay fine 30
bucks like if especially if you go on Robin Hood you can buy fractions of
stocks 50 bucks a week 40 bucks a week put something in 30 bucks a week put
something in with eighth load in the 12th house what are you doing you are giving the 12th Eighth House the feeding
that hey look I have unexpected Investments that are going up and out up and out constantly I am
unexpectedly also giving donations randomly which you should and get people
gifts spend money somewhere okay so for example multi-millionaire will give their
girlfriend a Rolex watch okay they'll they'll spend 20,000
in a Rolex watch 40,000 on a Rolex watch you wherever level you're at maybe you
can just go buy a single row and give it to your girlfriend you spent that money and you
gave an unexpected gift because then what happens is the
Eighth House begins to develop the 12th house so when all these three things are happen happening what is one thing that
is going to gain your Investments 8th house says oh let me
suddenly do something here now of course you don't have to be
extremely greedy and naive that oh I'm going to put all the Savings in this crypto and then I'm going to be 100x
then that's on you Eighth House as long as you're putting money in the market
that if you were to lose that amount of money is not going to do anything to you and then you see what the unex
expectations of the eighth house is doing it is going to do something better for
you eighth Lord is in the 12th house right in order for you to learn the
hidden truth of this life hidden truth of the World hidden truth about who you
are you're going to have to retreat into isolation you want to learn jotish learn
jotish in isolation you want to learn Tantra learn Tantra in isolation while somebody's in
the middle of punee or Mumbai right next to the Amani house
where all the people are and security is and that's where you go to Yoga Center to learn your Tantra no that's not going
to work for you for you you actually going to have to go to rishikesh you have to go far away from the
known to the point of an exit to understand these things and the thing is with eth floor
in the 12th house you will find that you will find that particular
um ability to find yourself in situations like in a monastery finding
somebody who now you found some Monk in a monastery who actually knows astrology knows that you have interest in
astrology and they just tell you something hey do you know sign of Gemini becomes active at
32 you're like wow because it does it becomes active at
32 okay which I'll teach this next year but but that's what happens with
the E Lord in the 12th house and also you will see um usually for a person bet
Pleasures okay sleep and Pleasures can give unexpected
results like real world example you had a one night stand with
somebody and you realize that this person is actually a personal assistant to Amani or Elon
musk who knew and now you make a great connection with them they like you you like them and somehow some way they find
out you're an engineer and you've been working on this and this like you know there's an opening at
SpaceX if you want to come by sure so guess what happened that bad
plet expectedly gave something to you okay same way we can look at eighth
Lord in the ascendant so e Lords in the ascendant right the first thing that you will see if you deal with tremendous
amount of unexpected adventures in your life unexpected Adventures simply means something that you weren't
expecting happens something that you didn't know that was there is there right because Eighth House is the
adventure house like I said so when you go on an adventure adventure simply means you don't know where you're going
what you're going to meet who you're going to see what you're going to eat where you're going to sleep what environment is it what the weather
is there how the people are there what the language is there you don't know nothing this is the adventure so when eighth Lord is in the
ascendant which is the beginning of the life it shows that especially if a
person is because you will deal with these surprises in life sudden
unexpected things in life now if the eighth Lord in the ascendant is not in
the best shape which easily you can find out if you were to learn
nadii if you learned nadii from me nand Nadi on my magav chology Academy you'll
get it because if it's in a bad shape go to foreign lands this is that one place
go far away from where you were born far away from you where you have
existed and don't look back so for example you're born in India
go to us go to Europe go somewhere because this is where now you're
flipping the script okay there's something called not just theography chart but the longitude
chart in the longitude chart what happens is based on the time that you
were born everything just change the location of the country and see where
the what the planets were so they changes that result but eighth Lord in
the ascendant can actually show the person even where they were born where wherever they are settled they're
experiencing just new like this person can actually just want change in their life they don't want to settle in
relationship they don't want to settle in their career they don't want to settle in their education they want to keep doing things keep learning things
because this is who they have embraced the eighth house they're like they don't have to know astrology okay they have
they shouldn't be even having interest in astrology but what this shows is I'm
not saying they shouldn't or may not have it I'm just saying if they don't they still will prefer they're like my
life is an adventure I want change I get bored with things too quickly because once they settle into a routine for a
long time this is now where the AAS begins to feed itself and irro the
ascendant so instead of feeling the adventure you feel like you're dealing with unexpected things in life that you
don't want eighth Lord in the ascendant the person loves to expose Secrets loves to
expose hidden things loves to expose uh you know information to the
others these are those investigative journalists they are because the eighth
house is coming to the ascendant they always tend to get information which is hidden they always tend to find things
which are interesting like this is the person eighth Lord and the ascendant if this person was to go on Joe Rogan
they'll have many things to tell they'll have many stories to tell uh to Rogan
because their life has experienced naturally like they just go let's say they were going to somebody's wedding
they were supposed to be there for an hour 2 hours then they're going to leave and suddenly they find somebody there who worked in the CIA and worked and saw
alien crafts and this and that and they get to learn that story like whoa really wow oh my
God this is becomes the pattern of light with the eighth Lord and the ascendant
but the main thing is be adventurous number two if though if you're dealing with those unexpected events that you
don't want then you're going to have to move move to a far away Place move to a foreign
land now the eighth Lord is in the second house Lord is in the second house so obviously this is one of those
placement of a person to attain inheritance unexpected wealth unexpected
money one naturally will be able to earn money through things connected with the Eighth House research occult mysticism
Insurance Wen Estates treasury Human Resources managing people's wealth
and especially eighth Lords in the ascendant I'm sorry eighth Lords in the second house after your birth family had
to move whether it was in the one year or 2ear period family would move to somewhere else whether most likely it
can move to a at least 3 to 400 miles away from where where you were born or can you can move to a foreign Place
foreign lands okay with this particular position eight Lords in the second
house always keep your money in in an invested places don't try to always just
hoard and store money oh I have bank money in the bank money and this because
what happens is if see you you're not aligned with your eighth Lord in the second house eth
L 8ighth house says Adventure 8th house says I want to experience adventure and I'm coming to
the second house to feed with my adventure so here you are trying to store something and have a steady wealth
money eight Lords the second house says well I'm I'm feeding here I'm going to take this money I'm going to take that
money I'm going take money suddenly unexpectedly a person loses money but
how do you align this is the biggest remedy you don't need to run any gemstones you don't need to go to uh and
break a a coconut somewhere no you should always keep your money in
invested places especially when you're making serious money not when you're living paycheck to paycheck that is
definitely doing its part but let's say for example you own two properties you have a career you have a
title so instead of just storing money have money somewhere in
assets like especially markets for a1k plan or or IRA Roth IRA ETFs anything
where the money is naturally on a daily basis is doing this up and down up and down up and down so when the money is
going up and down up and down up and down up and down up and down okay is going up and down up and down up and
down your Eighth House will not make you
uh feel like oh things are happening unexpectedly in my life and suddenly in my
life because you're naturally aligned with that particular part your money is going up one day
let's say you got 200,000 in the market so one day it's down to 180 then within 2 months it's down it's up to 220 then
it's back down to 210 then it's up to 230 it it's up and now so 8 house is saying okay I'm here to feed but I'm
kind of full because I I I'm already fed I feel like I'm not
hungry but 8 FL in the second house also shows um one likes to collect things
that are very mysterious in nature very unorthodox in nature you know like some
sometimes a person likes to collect haunted items they'll go and uh like there's
this guy who has a reality show in us uh regarding visiting haunted places
he is a very recognizable person wears like these thick black glasses and spiky hair he'll always purchase something so
eth Lord in the second house shows one likes to collect something which is very unorthodox unexpected with unexpected
result or energy you don't know what you're
getting and this is why also a in the second out a person loves being an entrepreneur wants to invest in things
that they don't know what to expect from it but they feel like okay there's
something there there's something big there and especially with a lord in the
second house you will see whenever this person uh whenever their speech pattern will
always be halfway and half of it will be mysterious they will it's like if
somebody supposed to say that if you go to Nevada and in this particular area
you will find this uh bridge and under the bridge there's a military base where you'll find these three alien
crafts or as a military place with the three alien crafts they'll be like for
them it'll be like in a conversation in you know if you go to
Nevada and there's three alien space crafts there set a
bridge okay but it's there I've seen it where well where's the bridge it's hard
to tell I don't know I just went there somehow I can't relocate it
anymore I don't know they want to keep half of what they're saying to a mystery
why because that mystery now begins to attract others see mystery is what
attract people to someone so here what attracts them is that's mystery and
speech sometimes they FL in the second house they will have some kind of a speech impact pent disorder or they will
have some form of trouble speaking early in life but usually such people like to
speak about Secrets like especially if you will
see fifth Lord and eighth Lord are together in the second house such PE
person cannot digest secrets you tell them a secret they will tell
people okay cuz e fifth house is digestion that's where you digest something but it's not being digested it
coming backed out and if it's the eighth Lord It's Eighth House is a secret so they will say the
secrets then eighth Lord is in or eighth Lord is in the third house so eigh Lords
in the third house the first thing it shows that you're not in control well you're not in control if you're going to
have younger siblings or not and neither if you have younger siblings you're not in control if your relationship with
them is going to be good or not is going to be surprise like one month it's really bad and no matter what you did
nothing happened and yet even when you then became mean they suddenly came back and wanted to be friends with you
again it's like wait when I was doing all these nice things you didn't want to
talk to me and now that I have blocked your number now you're finding ways to connect with me and talk to me I know
I'm giving like extreme example but that's what it will do your
relationship with the friends will be like that suddenly you have these friends in your
life and suddenly poof they're gone why because you don't have control over that the other thing because third house is
the communication third house is the Media communication see second house is how you speak third house is the information
that you're getting and receiving and giving which is why third house represents when you talk to other people
outside of your own Circle when you go into media especially nowadays what social media internet
TV is a old thing now neighbors friends so you will see
such a person loves to share secret informations with other people when they learn some secret they like to share
with people when when a Flo is in the third house a person can transform people's
lives with their words with their speech not even speech their communication
style okay because 8,000 transformation Eighth House is change and when they speak they
can change a person's life they can flip a person upside down so this is why when eighths in the
third house such people naturally become great life coach business coach motivational coach eth Lord is in the
third house this person will have the ability to of turning dust into
gold because third house is effort third house is pressure Eighth House is things
which are buried underground right right so when Eighth House related things begin to get pressure this is actually
one of the L kab placements meaning as well eighth Lord in the third house um
dust turns into gold because the Eighth House element is
in such pressure in the third house why because it's eighth from the e it is the bat bam of the a is the biggest source
of transformation and change and so you will see if you want change
in your life okay the moment this person starts writing when you want want
transformation start writing what the change you want to be
what the change you have it begins to happen when you begin
to speak to people about transforming their life changing their life your own
life begins to change eighth Lord in the third house usually
such people will always either tend to lose communication
devices or such people will tend to even
um lose small valuables time to
time like for example they'll lose like e or in the third house you can lose something related to let's say like
wedding rings you'll buy a lot of wedding rings because Eighth House is the gain of the
marriage and gain of the marriage the symbolized by a ring right and so when eighth Lord goes
into the third which is eighth from the eth you will always tend to lose things which are given through by the spouse or
something may be connected with the marriage eighth Lord is in the third
house okay such people will always make the most toughest and the best effort
in the hardest of times it's when time is hard they get the biggest boost and
motivation like oh this this is happening I'm going to come out of this
watch and the other thing relationship with the neighbors will always be unexpected it can be unexpectedly good
and unexpectedly bad no matter even if you were nice to them suddenly they just are going to be mean and rude to
you okay so that's what eighth Lord in the third house does now let's talk about eighth Lord is in the fourth house
and also actually eighth Lord in the third
house your in-law's life will be full of ups and downs father-in-law father-in-law's life would have seen a
major transformation or change in life as well okay but let's talk about eighth
Lord in the fourth house so eighth Lord is in the fourth house so obviously it shows that one will not find themselves
settled in their birth city same home that they grew up in because if you see four house is
where we love our comfort where we feel like we're just in peace no matter how bad situation is at
work you know when you're home in a roof you just feel that
calmness security here eigh lot said that I'm bringing my adventure into the
fourth house okay so I will not either I
forcefully feed myself into the fourth house or you have to feed
me that means number one if you are settled where you were born I will just
bring these unexpected things that you will not enjoy so you have to move away
from where you were to a different city different state the further you are the better
eighth Lord in the fourth house usually actually I've seen charts of
Nomads I'm not saying you're going to be a nomad but unless a Dasha uh certain
Dasha comes in um a person will naturally in that
Dasha will like to move like for example eighth Lord moon is in the fourth
house okay that means the person wants change but regardless eighth Lord in the
fourth house says that this person needs to have Adventure you must constantly
well first of all it'll naturally make a person constantly move a lot especially if it's eighth Lo in the
fourth house is a movable sign one moves a lot but at the same time such a person
always needs to travel constantly travel to keep that happiness and
comfort flowing in their life meaning a person should at least in
a year you don't need to go travel far away to a different country spend a lot
of money go take long road trips you're in a country let's say you are in New Delhi from New Delhi India you go to
rishik go to chenai go to Nepal go to Bangalore on your on the road do our
road trip the more free frequently you do that because see the eighth house thing
says I'm going up like The Wave I'm coming down like the wave I'm going up like The Wave so here you are home home
home then you're traveling traveling traveling you're home home home you're traveling traveling traveling you're
keeping things uh you know moving especially eighth Lord in the fourth house usually a person will always love
to shift their Furniture time to time especially when um there's a 90°
hit of a planet which means from the second house when a planet transits the second
house any planet and you have eighth Lord in the fourth house you will see somehow according to that planet you
will arrange that furniture okay you'll choose certain
direction to change that because that becomes that motivation of the transiting
Planet because it's then also finding its motivation with the eighth Lord in the fourth
house eighth Lord in the fourth house we also see mother has to deal with again
the adventures like the eighth or and the ninth house mother life has to be that unexpected life mother life the
more like she'll deal with so many unexpected things like she will be just
be aware of everything she will become like a rock no matter what happens I've dealt with this I've gone through this but she will go through those first it's
like that U moist uh you know piece of um
mud and by going through all of these ups and downs ups and downs it becomes
into a rock so now if ups and downs ups and downs comes rock is just sitting there so over time mother gets very hard
with dealing with all the things she becomes very tough about dealing with all kinds of issues now the relationship
with the mother may not be affected with you for that we have to see the moon but what it shows in her life itself she
herself personally deals with these surprises and Adventures we call you
can't even call it ups and downs it just surprise Adventures sometimes we like those
Adventures sometimes we don't now eighth Lord is in the fifth
house so eighth Lord is in the fifth house so obviously what does this show
first of all it naturally brings new
changes sudden changes in person's educations person's learning especially even with
the fourth house like eighth Lord in the fourth house and fifth house one way or the other it suddenly changes the mode
of Education one suddenly wants to go from one major to the other and especially eighth Lord in the 5ifth
education or intelligence of a person does really well when it has something to do with discovering
something dealing with research analysis extrapolating things you know
inventing things and eth Lord in the fifth house is actually one of those placement of
people uh who naturally want to turn uh occult and mysticism into their
creative process cuz fifth house is what fifth house is creativity fif fifth
house is children fifth house is romance something that you just you know what romance is romance isn't just in
relationship romance is about anything connected with that makes you feel uh
eoent something that makes you feel you know um in just a fun loving
mood so whenever this person with a lord you know going into the fifth um when of
this person deals with hidden mysteries they feel they're learning something that's becomes their
interest like a lot of people who may have interest to words paranormal
things you know those things um become active like they have great interest in
learning those things and also eighth l in the fifth house pregnancy happens
unexpectedly like you weren't hoping or you weren't even thinking that you were going to get pregnant and suddenly
boom pregnancy happens whether it's a male or female chart doesn't matter because in a male chart suddenly now
you're on on your way of becoming a father in a female start you're on your way to becoming a
mother and especially because eighth Lords in the fifth house birth of a child brings in that change and
transformation that you look for okay so whenever children are born
suddenly life goes from here to like there okay and then it uh because fifth
house is intelligence people like see you're intelligence will obviously be affected
by the planet that is sitting in the fifth like if it's a moon then it'll be
the mother that will always kind of impact your intelligence if it's son father will impact your intelligence but because it's the eighth
Lord in the fifth house besides the people that is represented by the planet okay is the secret information
that somebody shares that always will stick into your Consciousness like I remember back when
I was 9 years old this person told me the secret and this information and yes I
understand it I know it so
secrecy you know always somehow infuses into your intelligence subconsciously
sometimes you can't even like realize how it impacted you but it impacted you
eighth Lord in the fifth house such people love getting interested in stock market
sports betting gambling crypto the intelligence is working where
things are just going up and down up and down they love going into those things
any kind of a challenging game especially board games and brain
games when there's a challenge because Eighth House is
challenge so those things happen um 8,00 also
you know um represents Rebirth of
things okay so you will see like a person always finds their rebirth when
they learn something when they take their some kind of a new lesson but they take some kind of a new course they feel
this rebirth within them
okay so in that case now we move to eighth Lord in the sixth house so eighth
Lord is in the sixth house and this is a very beneficial
position in certain areas for sure because here was it what is it doing is
bringing tremendous amount of fluctuation for your enemies competition
Rivals your obstacles actually find themselves in trouble so you can see a
person can actually steer through op obstacles an enemy no matter who comes after this person they'll they'll at the
end win the battle and this is why in parash side of astrology this is known
as vit yoga meaning by facing obstacles and enemies in front of you suddenly
there's a transformation suddenly there's a change suddenly there's a rise in your life but on the other hand you
will also see in-laws will have tremendous amount of health issues somebody in spouse's family will will
always have like some kind of a chronic health issue in life it also shows your
maternal aunts and uncles life has been full of changes full of
Adventures full of either ups and downs depending upon how they're handling their life see it's not because your
chart is doing this to them otherwise there's no point in looking at one chart you have to look at the chart of the
entire Clan to predict for one person what it shows though that your chart shows that their time is
changing with your eighth Lord being in the sixth house that right after your birth you
would have seen major dramatic changes in your ants and uncle's life maybe you know aunts and uncles
themselves dealt with some health issue accidents or they suddenly move to a foreign Place depends on how the planet
is it's not like this East these things are happening one by one no it's the planet that is going to show that
particular part and then eighth Lord in the sixth
house tremendous obstacles comes in though when this person tries to do research like you will find research or
if let's say someone tries to be in astrologer a jotish they find obstacles
and trying to get that hurdle getting out of that obstacles like this person
can find tremendous amount of competition enemy in the whatever research based a cult based work that
they may do and of course the whole chart will
show us if perhaps this person can do things related to the eighth house as their
daily work but perhaps they should move to a foreign Place perhaps they should move near water perhaps they should move
on a uh a place of heights with mountains perhaps they should move into a place which is has a vast plane in the
front it all depends maybe they need to move to the Eastern Hemisphere maybe they have to move to the Western
Hemisphere now we will do eighth Lord in the sth house seventh Lord or eighth
Lord is in the seventh house so obviously eighth Lord is in the sth house naturally in relationships
marriage a person deals with tremendous amount of changes surprises Adventures
see I don't call it like bad up and down because it's simply Eighth House is something new Eighth
House is something undiscovered 8 houses an adventure see when you go on in an
adventure adventure is about seeing a completely new place new weather new
people new language new food new environment new wild animals you're
dealing with everything new because your desire is to see life and become
infectious with that life so now that life force of Adventure
is in the 7th house and of course on a common BAS B is a person just feels that
frustration that I want steadiness everybody wants stability in the marriage right and this is that one
person that if they're not aligned with the eighth Lord in the seventh house and if they seek stability they will not
find stability that's not the constitution of your chart so stop
seeing or stop wearing gemstones doing this remedy that remedy oh I got to
stabilize my marriage no the remedy is already there in front of you you know
what the remedy is your marriage cannot be common your marriage cannot be simple
plain it must be unorthodox for it to thrive it must be full of surprises must
be full of changes must be full of Adventures so if you think that okay I got married now it's time to go to work
daily routines is here perfect I'm working she's working let's
have kidss no you can't do that if you want because you you can surely do
whatever you want but just don't complain that marriage is going bad because you need so one thing you
should always do with seventh Lord in the eighth house give time to time surprises this has to become a routine
once or twice a month surprising your spouse with something small gift small rose uh you know reservation at a
restaurant and then you must also surprise your spouse with travel plans
hey we're off the next three days right guess what we're going to travel we're going to go here we're going to do that we're going to do this we're going to do
that if there's no changes and especially the marriage has to be an
adventure like I can give you 20 different ways it can be an adventure
but that's mine you have to find yours okay but the upset and downs that
the marriage deals with the surprises that marriage deals with the adventur see it's not ups and downs we think it's
ups out it's just an adventure it's like hey here is something new so marriage has to be in a way where there just new
things are popping up you guys like for example this would be a great um great marriage with
seventh Lord and the 8,000 of two people were let's say National Geographic
photographers that that means they're going out on adventure traveling and they have this word uh the wife is in
Uganda the husband is going to Kenya then they have to go together to you
know Nepal and Himalayas there's like unexpected
work okay unless the spouse has this spouse you find a spouse who has to just
travel at any given moment spouse is a firefighter spouse is a police officer
right spouse is a soldier Army there's these changes and surprises then things are just balanced then you do then you
live your regular life why because then it becomes your regular life you're working but your spouse is um uh what do
you call you know they're posted at the border of India and Pakistan they're
posted at the border of you know
Texas and people will know it's a normal life yeah your spouse is in Military and
this great so now that surprise element is now making
things regular and common otherwise once you try to settle
in in a normal cocoon good luck that ain't happening I don't care
you can do whatever vastu you want you can do whatever uh wearing this gemstone
that's gemstone no because the best remedy is the one that the Lord and the plan it is providing that's
it that's it okay so anyway guys this was my
analysis of uh a Flo through houses remember if you need to know anything about your chart my consultations check
out the links here car astrology.com otherwise uh we'll see you with the
unique video on AI and astrology soon bye-bye
[Music] so ladies and gentlemen Welcome to our
uh video of Lord through houses and today we're covering one of the most significant houses of your horoscope of
your chart of your DNA of your life which is your ninth house because ninth house is the house
of bagya your
luck nine house is the house of Dharma Dharma which is the
truth Dharma which is unchangeable
undeniable cannot be manipulated so in other
words we may not even know what is the true Dharma because there are a million
people giving different versions of what is Dharma see Dharma is like
saying that right now it's daytime and when sun goes down it'll be night that is the truth that is the
truth in its purest form but now if somebody says well it's
not really night there's no Darkness here you're just at the other end of the planet but
there's always light so some people will think of it like yeah there's always light it's just
on the other end of this some people will say your eyes are not meant to see
the light when sun goes down but there's always light there's a special sidhi you
need to see the light but guess what all of that is
noise that dharma's Purity is saying you see the dark that's dark you see the
light that's light you can't change that you can manipulate it in your own way
but you can't change that it's like the DNA to make a human
being you can keep saying this and that and that but if one strand is off it's
no longer a human it's something else so the Dharma says this entire thing creates a human right so it becomes
important and Dharma is a house of completion it's a house that makes you
feel completed Dharma is also the ninth house
and here I did make a video of uh number nine year right which is a
year of completion endings Beginnings you know it's a complete it's
a energy of Mars which can be destructive protective
fiery so if you haven't seen that video I just uploaded that like last week for
numerology for 2025 but if you look at the fact if 9th
house is completion and 9th house is actually the reason behind the navamsha chart
it's the ninth division of marriage which means what Dharma and the ninth house makes
you feel complete when you're married for many people they feel like I'm not complete until I find my better
half my soulmate my uh twin flame my wife husband
whatever so it's a very important house now
let's talk about the ninth floor through houses and most important thing to remember I made 2025 horoscope for each
ascendant on my Caris Vlogs on Maga Bic astrology Academy which you can find the
link in the below below in the comment section or description section okay so all the ascendant are there and each
video is like 20 to 30 minutes long now one thing you want to understand with retrograde
planets if your ninth Lord is retrograde you're still going to watch
what I talk about ninth Lord in the 4th House Ninth Lord in the 7th house n9th Lord in the 12th house right but one
thing you have to understand with retrograde planets they will make you do things repeatedly related to that
particular house and your 9th house in order to achieve that 9th house related
things that's the simplest understanding of the retrograde
Planet as you will do repeated things towards having that luck having that you
know um blossoming prosperity to come about which I always also tell
people that if there is the ninth floor that is retrograde don't quit if one effort
fails you have to repeatedly make that effort and then you achieve those
things that's the only thing that that's one of the main things with the retrograde
Planet it'll make you keep going back because there will be mistakes that you will make the first time around
sometimes second time around but then you will get it eventually but still you want to
understand where that planet is placed 9th or and the 12th and 1st and fourth you're not putting it in the previous
house okay that is still going to be the place but there will be repeated themes that are going to be needing there
so when ninth Lord is in the ninth house there is a bit of a protection there is a feeling of
security and protection in pertaining to the ninth house and the thing is if the ninth Lord
is in the ninth house whether it's Moon being in cancer Venus being in Libra Taurus Saturn being in Aquarius or
Capricorn okay they're it's like the the person who lives in the house is in the house so there's security protection
okay there's this VI vibrant energy there but that doesn't mean that okay if ninth Lord is in the 9th house your B is
amazing your luck is amazing everything happens because what if now these
planets are hemmed then what happens it's like your
this is the house and let's say the owner is in the house but then outside you've got robbers or you know military
surrounding you and pointing the guns at your home that's what happens now what now now
you're like worried you're you have an anxiety panic attack you're like what's
their next move so what happens is in those cases the ninth Lord is the ninth
house with those hemmed position you know can feel an anxiety related to
their luck related to their relationship with the father teachers all of these things and depending on which planet is
Hemming which planet is doing what is needs to do then especially third from this planet third from the ninth
Lord then you have to find the remedy through those planets navigating through the alignment of those
planets but overall though ninth Lord provides us this security it says I'm going to protect
you most of the way out okay you may not feel like you have the most luck you may not feel like
you're the most fortunate person but still I will at the last moment will save you
now what's the other important thing with ninth Lord in the 9th house is to look at the significator of the 9th
house which is Jupiter the position of Jupiter with the ninth Lord becomes that
double tick cuz if one is off the other is not off it's a neutral
situation right so you want both of them to be in a certain place and if they're not that's fine you align yourself with
it okay but what it shows is that whichever planets is ruling the ninth
house okay your Dharma is connected with that planet and I've already I think made
enough videos now with planets in the ninth house regardless of the
Signs Now ninth Lord is in the 10th house so when ninth
Lord is in the the 10th house your bagya is connected with your
work what does that mean cuz you might be thinking well I mean until I have good luck how can I
have a career but that's not what I mean your bhagya is connected with your work with
society and this is important I think if you want to know of
all the placements actually n9th in the 10th house I would give 10 out of 10 importance
why because it says your work must be taken as your
Dharma doesn't matter let's say you graduated with an IT degree software engineering you can't
find work so you're now working in some clothing department store and you're
doing meaningless meager work and you're doing it with half a heart quarter of a
heart you're like I just got to pay bills whatever I got to fold these clothes da da da da da down da da da da da this
okay am I is it time to leave now when you do not take every single
work like it's the command of Shiva you destroy your
bhagya meaning let's say for example I did
janitorial work in schools and of course it's something that I I was very
immature about didn't want to do it I kind of did it half fast you know I was
young early 20s but if I had nin FL in the 10th
house I better make it look like I am doing the work I was destined
to do so when you're folding those clothes
in the department store you you should be like I just graduated with a PhD and
folding clothes and here's my work so when things are taken as absolute
Duty with your work you're giving the truth to
society your true self to society and true self is not the negligence true self of each person is
doing the work the right way paying the most attention and you will see even when you get the most Med mediocre work
if you do it like your life depends on this work and it's your biggest passion
you will see your ninth House of luck increase increase increase increase increase cuz in a way this is partial
you can say Dharma Karma Yoga ninth Lord is in the 10th house it has nothing to
do with Jupiter San conjunction function which naturally is a Dharma Karma Yoga you don't need to have 10th Lord in the
ninth house because see ninth Lord of your B is second from itself it
is gaining its power through the 10th house which also means that you must
definitely follow your paternal lineages you know is De Kuli if there is
you must follow with the deepest of heart like it's your mother or father
themselves the other thing with the ninth Lord in the
10th part of it was the Kul Davi so ninth Lord is second from itself where
it's trying to gain his wealth okay obey the speech of the father
cuz 10th house is the spoken word of the father and you will know that yeah what
father's saying right but a teenager and father is wrong blah blah blah he's
always trying to just be the most righteous person in your case I'm sorry you can't deny
that to raise your luck you follow that dharmic path of what the father is
saying but I'm not saying that what father will say is corre right your soul will know we know like as a teenager if
I messed up and Mom and Dad are saying this why are you doing this you're supposed to be this like they're old
right but you know internally it's right but you're just denying it the other thing when ninth floor is
in the 10th house don't ever make a mistake or blunder of
changing your last name or the spelling of the last name you will activ P
josa intensely cuz you're insulting your pitri who have carried the name on and
now because you're this Martin gen z a b c d whatever it is you're like I want to
change my name and I'll make my last name short form to this this and this or numerologically it's supposed to this
this and don't ever screw up with the last name do whatever you want with the first
name last name you don't and now I know someone's going to say well you're last name is Shasta and now you changed it to
Raj no legally my name was never
Shasta I was from birth The Outsider my birth certificate says couple
Raj the only thing that happened was that I changed my I added an e in my
couple but it was never couple Raj shast in any passport any school documents
nothing was just couple Raj while the entire family is Shasta
so that's different cuz I wasn't it wasn't my option or Choice it was as is so I'm just leaving
it as is okay one thing we also see with this ninth FL in the my God this could be a
long one ninth floor is in the 10 uh 10th house whenever you work with your in uh sibling
in-laws you gain success when
you g when you work or take advice and respect your in-laws sibling
in-laws your career will flourish ninth FL is in the 10th
house feed your father Guru advisor great
meals when you meet your Mentor in your University right you whether it's master's degree Bachelor doesn't matter
you love and respect this teacher take them out for a nice dinner feed them
take your father out time to time take him to the best restaurant let's
go you have a guru that actually like a real Guru that you interact with bring
him the best food okay if you're going to bring him like paneer or dll have that dll with
like a gold plate or something just like five star vegetarian food for the
guru helps your ninth house now ninth Lord is in the 11th
house so when ninth Lord is in the 11th house the one thing you will see this if
you go through the Dasha of a planet in the 9th house which is not your ninth Lord bhagya
happens B happens B becomes active Okay but again of course you have
to see the conditions like I told you earlier in the video but now the Dharma Lord
goes into the Kama houses right so here it becomes
important what in the world is your desire your ninth Lord being in the 11th
house number one thing is is third from itself the fruits of your D Dharma is in
the 11th house so here for a person it becomes
very important what your desire desires are because based on those desires will
the Dharma activate itself like for example I get readings I just did a
reading maybe like 3 days ago kind of had to give a lecture to this individual
cuz their entire focuses I have done this this and this but show me how to make a billion I want
to become a billionaire and whenever I see this I get now upset about it not because
I'm I'm not I'm looking at you as somebody you know who doesn't know better no I get
upset because I'm looking out for you cuz the moment you say to an
astrologer to a psychic to anybody a counselor Financial I want to become a
billionaire you are already guaranteed to not become a billionaire at all
because any billionaire who has become a billionaire they didn't set out to be a billionaire their focus was to do that
work that they became a billionaire through Jeb baso wanted to be a
physicist he's a he's a nerd and then he's like well I love books let me create an online bookstore
a proper online bookstore for people his whole thing is bookstore he didn't say I'm going to become the
biggest shopping center in the world and one of the richest people in the world no it's it's that thing and that's
it wa took him there great your desires has to be connected
with Dharma you want to activate your ninth House of luck your desire has to be
serving Society your Desir is to your your ninth
Lord in the 11th shows the more efforts you make in helping big problems solving big
problems helping people with big problems okay respecting the Elder
sibling unless of course they're a complete you know manic individual
that's a different thing then you want to distance themselves but you want to respect from
that dharmic perspective and the reason why I said solving the biggest problems of the
Society of this planet because 11,000 six from the sixth is the bat bam of the
sixth house so sixth house is
service sixth house is also enemy sixth from the sixth becomes a biggest enemy
but it's also service you want to activate your Dharma you want to do the proper things with Dharma serve your enemy serve your
biggest enemy you have to okay so 9th Lord in the 11th house you know what it
is it is exactly what Michael Kon will do and The
Godfather if a enemy is trying to get him and they did he'll set up a
conference with all the food drinks everything and he'll try to talk his way
to peace and actually helping the enemy make money why through him he will make
money right because Godfather if you look is not a mafia it's about how
politics of business is played this is where that ninth Lord and
the 11th will help you to achieve that Dharma but ninth Lord in the 11th will
also show one has to make tremendous effort to get a guru in their
life tremendous efforts when the guru comes when the teacher comes
you will also see father really would have to put tremendous effort towards
dealing with his younger siblings helping out his younger siblings father's strength actually
comes from your Elder sibling and his own younger
siblings so don't ever feel jealous if your father feels more uplifted when he
they're around the 11th not 11th Elder sibling you know why because it helps
you the more father the better the father has a good relationship with the Elder sibling even compared to you your
luck Will D why because the ninth Lord and the 11th Lord have made an agreement
made peace love now if it's naturally there perfect
lucky but if they hate each other the Elder sibling cannot stand the father because they refused to let them marry
the person they wanted to blah blah blah well now you have to make sure there's peace cuz that
fight that animosity disturbs your
bhagya okay the other thing whenever you listen to the word of
the guru whether it's in a audio form video form
your luck Rises okay because 11,000 is the updesh
of the guru the message the guru is
giving and if you listen to that message it activates your ability to
fulfill your desires but please note your first desire should
be towards serving helping the guru and
God that's it when you do that whatever the other
Dharma or your desires are the guru will automatically the energy of the ninth house will automatically help you
achieve those things because remember 11th house is the bakes is the original bakish it's
always going to be bakish no matter what ascendant you are there's three concept there's bakish then there's mahab bakes
and then there's ties 11,000
ti so when you have too many desires they become obstacles for
you and they become obstacles for your Dharma so this is
why you have a desire for that Lamborghini and that billion dollars burn
it if you want to get it burn it only then you achieve it your first
Dharma should be your ninth house how can I help my lineage how can I serve my paternal
lineage father and a guru that's it and that will raise your
luck now ninth Lord is in the 12th house nth Lord goes into the 12th
house obviously you will know that the absolute desired relationship
you wanted with the father couldn't get it desired relationship with the guru you wanted couldn't get it and I'm going
to explain when you do the desired for that higher education
you wanted exactly didn't pan out exactly the way you
wanted for example you wanted to go to upen Wharton School of Finance
but you got accepted to Purdue University all right okay the thing is
with the ninth floor in the 12th house do not ever desire for anything
related to the ninth house
don't like for example you know when I first came across Yogananda and the
whole prya yoga family and all of that and I'm like oh my God I want someone
like Yogananda and frear and I want I wanted wanted wanted wanted wanted wanted
wanted okay and didn't get
it but the moment I stopped when I'm like I'm just done
frustrated it's not happening it happened this is exactly what I
explained with Saturn going in Pisces for each ascendant on my Caris
vogs it's very important you got to go listen to that when ninth lordo is in the 12th
house whatever you desire the DEA of the 12th house says oh you're Desiring for that perfect Guru to come in your life
here let me help you dissolve that desire you want to go to that best Ivy
leak school let me help that let me help you dissolve that because 12th house is the
dissolving of everything your Dharma Arta Kama including even
Moka I don't care what sign is in the 12th house it's the house that
dissolves liquifies melts whatever that is solid
and whatever that is earthy it melts it into ether ninth Lord is in the 12th house
the best thing to do do your work and don't think of what will happen with
this work I think it's that ninth Lord in the 12th house position is where that
quote of bhagwat Gita is made for like
don't do your karma but don't look for the fruits of that
Karma leave that to me leave that for me to give you same
thing naturally ninth Lord is in the fourth
house we would see that lot of an individuals Dharma and their their
knowledge their lineage will strongly be connected with paternal grandmother perhaps your grandmother was
the one that you interacted and instilled a lot of your you know
knowledge based from her if of course the ninth Lord in the 12th house was isn't a great
position or especially if ninth Lord in the 12th house was with Shani cuz Shani prolongs then the life of that
grandmother so she would be there long enough for you to interact with
her so because of course what is Shani sarin is the aayush Kara right it is to
give you the long life and then ninth the Lord is in the
12th house obvious shows bagya the moment
you become independent and you go far away from
home where you learn to be in a complete void and navigate yourself as part of
your lessons where you're in a small village in your town and let's say Andra
Pradesh orisa and boom here you are are in
Silicone Valley working or let's say you are in
Dubai in this like Mega Las Vegas
metropolis and now you got to learn about how do I navigate this in this new
alien country well in once you navigate there
and you settle yourself there that's when bag is like now I can activate myself for you number
two you better make a habit of donating money you know those people
who gain success and luck the more they donate this is that
position this is that position whenever in ninth Lord is
either in the 12th house or ninth Lord is connected with the 12th Lord or n
ninth Lord is in the nakshatra of the 12th Lord these are the people who went
this is why they Advocate oh the more you give the more you receive and that is the thing cuz 9,000
is your Investments or I'm sorry 12,000 is your Investments what is the point of
investment you put $8,000 today and in a in 10 years time you're hoping it'll become
$40,000 right so you get things in return turned with an interest because
this is also the place where shukra Venus is exalted in the house of uh
Lakshmi so the more you do things the more you help people that are far away from the
Privileges of society the the better your Bia
becomes and you cannot be a miser with ninth Lord in the 12th house B will go
down when you become Miser and a stingy person that even knowing you can easily
afford a nice warm jacket for your kids or your
spouse yet you are like no winter is only going to last for 3 months and if I
get this one that is like uh $100 less they'll be fine or why do they don't
even need this let me go to a thrift store and get a used jacket of someone with someone's bad carine energy in it
and let they'll wear they'll be fine cuz I can take this remaining of the money
save it or invest it when you have that thinking B goes down you got to be
openheartedly spending the money in the right way now this does not mean that you're parting yourself to Oblivion
that's not what I said I said when you have to spend money you spend
money you you take your children out your spouse out for de and you're like
no no no don't order from this don't let's not get that that's too expl no you took them out what they want you get spouse wants
to get that nice dish if it's in the menu hey you took them you get
that because tomorrow you can just drop dead what did all that being a miser do for you nothing it's a waste of time
waste of your entire life's energy being a
miser and the more you spend time alone and this is especially I love it
when I see like somebody with moon surrounded by all the planets and especially Moonis in Pura foni I'm like
go go be alone or moon is in R go be
alone cuz that'll be like what what else can I do what other things can I do as a
remedy no that is you need to you need to spend as much time by yourself in solitude and your B will start helping
you but yeah the position that I just gave became the most becomes the most
challenging unless moon is surrounded with shy that'll be different
then if you have Moon Saturn Mercury and Pura faloni then yeah then then it'll be
a easy thing for you now let's look at Ninth Lord in the
ascendant so if ninth Lord is in the ascendant first of all your birth is the
bhagya your birth is your bhia okay this is like birth of a
fortunate one because the extension of luck is now
on you there's blessings from past lineage there's blessings from past
gurus upon you doesn't matter if you're born in US Romania India UK
Russia doesn't matter at one point you would have gotten blessings of somebody but also what does it show
who's the first house first house is you so who's responsible of increasing
their luck you so sometimes a person who's
born literally the the family is lucky for them children are lucky for them
marriage is lucky for them here you're responsible for that luck
either you can screw it up or you can manifest more out of it now what is that
that the Dharma is asking you to do carry on the
lineage what does that mean that means when you have your children your B
happens first thing number one you must become the beacon of your ancestral
knowledge you must become the beacon of your ancestral culture and lineage and
don't let it get diminished the other
thing because nine fls in the first house don't ever just just like ninth Lord in the 10th house you should watch
that I said the same thing there don't ever please try to change
your last name especially as a male don't change your last name number one
number two like wanting to change the spelling of the last name because of like numerology and this and that you
will activate your Putra josa if you do that you can screw up whatever you want with your first name
and in ninth Lord in the 10th house I explain about my own name that I never
actually changed anything with my last name cuz I never had my family last name
from birth okay my Raj name has always been
there never was coupled Raj Shasta which is of course the reason
behind K RS channel like everybody in my family my sisters before marriage Shasta
Shasta dad Shasta but me Raj it's like I was born
to have that cut from the lineage naturally so it's not like I changed it to Raj oh no no it just I never had it
legally okay um the other
thing with ninth Lord you know in the ascendant obviously
this person will strongly gain most of their knowledge when they experience different
culture and when they teach other people about the benefits of learning other cultures other
religion this person cannot be dogmatic that mine is the best religion and the
other ones are not luck goes down it'll go down the
drain no need to insult any religion you don't agree with it don't bash just move
on just focus on on your own there's going to be many other people many other timing timelines that
will come in Rectify it needs to be rectified maybe it doesn't need to be rectified your own perception is
wrong but one of the biggest things that ninth in the snn shows you must pass down your knowledge or certain knowledge
a dharmic knowledge to other people I don't care if you're an it I don't care if you're a lawyer I don't care if you're planning to run for prime
minister or president you have to your message should always be
about focusing on the lineage and don't letting the cultural culture die because of some new fat some new
fashion you got to send up for your
lineage okay because that's what's going to increase the luck and one thing we
see with nine sword in the assign your birth actually improved your father's luck
unless the ascendant Lord is in a position of being hemmed then it's going to be a different
thing but most of the time if it's in a normal position your birth increase the
luck of your father in that same case we will go
ninth Lord in the second house so when second Lord or ninth
Lord goes into the second house first of all it shows that yes after your birth
father would have had to deal with certain struggles in life things just didn't become
easy okay also shows after your birth the family would
have moved far away or it activated through your chart for
the family to at one point definitely move far away either to a different
state different country to find their better luck it also
shows it becomes part of a
person's pending Karma to First
struggle in life first half of Life One struggles and including struggles to
find a mentor teacher guidance father Guru and then ultimately a person gets
it so when you look for that teacher when you look for understanding the
higher Dharma of yourself you have to go through struggles of making mistakes
struggles of being lost struggles of being a vabon before you come to that place where you're able to now realize
that oh wait a second yeah me struggling to find this is because it was actually a one big
part of my life and because of your own previous
karmic debt or log you know you things didn't come luck
didn't come easy for you but the other thing your speech is very important for
your luck your speech your talk needs to inspire
others it needs to inflate others inflate others hope not deflate others
hope when you begin to do that it helps you raise your
luck the other thing we also see when ninth Lord is in the second
actually finding a guru let's say most of the time let's
say if you're 2025 you may not be interested in all of these things Guru Dharma
meditation because ninth Lord is sixth from itself but guess
what you must find a guidance of a guru sat Guru in order for you to make
money forget anything else making money storing
money and of course depending upon the planet that is
controlling you know the ninth house in your case you know will determine the type of
Guru you will attract to make that money and especially in your case
because your money is your second house you're going to have to
leave even if the family does not leave you will have to leave the family an
opportunity will come for you to go far away to make money and you will have to
go in order to do it and sometimes it can like cut off the link for you to ever come back even if let's say
somebody's born in New Delhi moves to lnno moves to Bangalore
and they're like okay well I'm well educated I have experience I am in a
very high title why don't I look for a similar or better position in my own home state of New Delhi so I can be
around all my family cousins friends yet you won't be able to you're going to have to be far in
order for that luck to be
active and we also see with ninth Lord in the sixth your birth
itself would pay off debts between you and your
father it's one of those positions that says the debt towards the father
is finished and uh cleaned and that can be through the
process of what you experience and what he experiences we also see
with ninth Lord in the second usually one
naturally cuts off from the lineage paternal lineage like especially
one moves far away from paternal lineage they might be closer to maternal lineage but they will move far
away but again because 9th house is the paternal
lineage second house is your speech what you
value what your values are your values can never ever decrease
for the paternal lineage your speech should always reflect the respect for that lineage cuz it's in your
speech and the more you even talk to others about focusing on your their
paternal lineage focusing on their uh you know higher Divinity the better
your luck becomes but one thing that happens with ninth Lord in the second higher
education can get stopped higher education becomes a form of a struggle to
finish it can be like your biggest challenge in life like it was easy for me to get a bachelor's degree but when I
went for my MBA now that was a tough part it took me six years but I was able
to complete it but I it was the hardest
thing and the other thing ninth Lord in the second also
shows um you will help out your brother and
sister-in-laws sometimes financially at one point you'll always take care of
them even if let's say they want to come see you you'll play for their flight
you'll go meet them you'll pay for all their dinner you find out they're struggling you'll sell them send send
send them money cuz you know what happens you feel like it's your responsibility to deal with anything
related to the ninth house no matter how your relationship is
with the father but if father is at that age even in the old
age you will feel and fulfill that Duty and responsibility of taking care of the
father it becomes that daily routine and pending karma for you but for you not
for you for your luck your luck automatically makes you do that unless there is so much malefic effect
that you just don't do it or you don't get the chance to do it but no matter what you will do
that now ninth Lord is in the third house so then ninth Lord is not third
house well what does this show well first of all it
shows depending upon if it's a malefic or benefic if it's a benefic planet
literally you will see things just your fruits of your karma just come about very easy and the luck becomes very easy
if it's if the benefic planet is conjunct and malefic becomes neutral there will be hard work involved but not
that much but if it's a m then it's looking at its own house but
it shows sheer hard work will is going to be required for example I rather
see you know a malefic in a person's chart because it's kind of like for
example becoming Michael Jordan see if you party you take time
off you're just waking up half an hour before for the basketball practice and it's just going there because hey got
selected I'm making money I'm here on time great I'm a great worker but then someone like Michael Jordan is like the
practice is at 700 a.m. I'm going to be there by 4:00 cuz I'm going to lift
weights beforehand I'm going to shoot beforehand I'm going to stretch beforehand okay cuz I need to beat all
these people and I need to beat everybody out there so that competitiveness comes in and that raises
your luck so ninth Lord and the third first of all also shows
traveling traveling somehow always makes you feel like you feel inspired ninth house is
also Dharma is inspiration so your inspiration comes through tra uh traveling inspiration comes through
writing now here's the thing and I think I I feel like this Deja Vu I've said
this before with ninth Lord in the third house right write your
goals write your goals of what you want to achieve especially with like a ink
pen and that to with a very nice pen not some cheap pen when you write your
goals they begin to help you in your luck to get what you need it shows
father would have been very good at communication
father probably made his money through communication through business father would have uh you know
um raised his own luck in life by interacting with people on one-onone
basis the other thing we also see usually such
people don't have to travel so much to find their teacher gurus or Mentor but
they do travel a certain distant short distant even if let's say a person moves to forland they will travel a short
distant but unless of course if the 12th Lord is now with the ninth Lord or if let's say ninth Lord which is
not Jupiter is with Jupiter now you have to travel a long distance so that's the only thing that makes a difference
there ninth Lord is in the third house your younger sibling gets the most attention of your
father it also shows your paternal
lineage would be that of merchants merchants or people who may have dealt
with lot of ups and downs and death and life of other people they could have even like death
Merchants meaning people back in the days or whoever they helped to bury the
bodies burn the bodies ninth the Lord goes into the the
third house usually such people if this person
because nowadays we can talk about things like social media when this person begins to talk
about subjects related to lineage subjects related to DNA subjects related
to higher knowledge higher education higher dharmic knowledge religious knowledge they actually find much luck
in accumulating crowds and views
because it's directly connecting with the people out
there ninth LS in the third house don't ever fight with your neighbor avoid as much fight as
possible and if it's in your nature to just wanted to create fights you look for
altercations then I mean there's nothing to help you your luck will keep getting
destroyed you do not want to have animosity with the neighbor
and especially nine towards in the third out right and this can be very true for
anybody anywhere in the world for example if you go to a temple
with your neighbor you help your neighbor go to a temple because let's say maybe they
don't have a car they want to go and it's not like I know it's kind of becomes awkward especially in US asking
your neighbor hey you want to go to a temple with me no but when you know they don't have a car vehicle and you see
them outside hey I'm going to the temple you want to go they say yeah okay come on let's
go but always offer that or tell them about especially you
want to raise your luck if in your city some Guru or
somebody's coming tell your neighbor about it hey did you hear this guru's coming I don't
know if you're going to go see them but they're coming inform them about the ninth
house you and and it's not something negative it needs to be positive inform them something positive
about the ninth house and it helps you raise your
bka but remember ninth Lord is in the third house third house is
effort one must put some effort towards their luck
ninth Lord in the 10th House Ninth Lord in the ascendant ninth Lord in the second and Ninth Lord in the third
requires effort actually ninth Lo in the 10th
ninth Lo in the Ascend nth Lo in the third because ninth or in the second
first half is definitely Struggle No matter how much hard work but then it does become easier as part of your
pending Karma to deal with the ninth house things
and we also see that your younger siblings will younger sibling in general
will be highly educated highly logical highly strategic very good at
strategies and they can also become very dharmic if if they have the combinations if your third house is a
combination but naturally ninth house is strategies so younger sibling will be
very they'll have the energy and infusing of skills of strategies but the thing is your
strategy comes in when you have to communicate communication sales Market
that's where your strategy comes into play ninth Lord is in the fourth
house so the luck the fortune the pya of an individual lies in the fourth
house which means any disturbance in the relationship of you
and mother disturbs your
luck if there's disputes and fights within the home conflicts within the
home disturbs your luck
and like I mentioned earlier in the video If a retrograde planet is there a
person has to repeatedly work on those particular areas of life
where the retrograde planet is sitting and the houses that is controlling like ninth or in the fourth
house um if it's retrograde a person will not easily
accept any teacher or Guru as their teacher or Guru a person will not naturally accept
whatever is being taught by their mother within the home as the Holy Grail of
philosophy and lessons so that's a retrograde part but but the other thing that we see with ninth Lord in the
fourth house okay it's when person learns from the
heart is when the true wisdom comes in such a person with ninth Lord and the
fouras if they simply go for Education because they're looking for uh filling up their resume with
accolades of degrees accolades of achievements it's not going to go anywhere
they won't feel lucky until they do what the heart says I need to do
this why because fourth house is the area of the heart and especially there will be many
Secrets related to the father within the home that only a few people will ever find
out either lineage or father or Guru certain Secrets would be
there on the other hand with nine in the four house a person cannot stay in their own home
they either have to leave early or they ultimately they have to leave far away from home home as in not their home that
they grew up in it's actually can even represent Homeland home state one may have to cross the
border and there's naturally lot of
emotional you know setbacks
trauma emotional unfulfillment that a person feels in
life especially related to their paternal lineage or
father and again this this will be at a different degrees on
for everyone some may feel it 20% some may feel it 90% somebody feel it 50% but
it it it's going to be there okay but what happens is ninth
Lord in the fourth house person does not really like to follow strict um or does
not want to give strict allegiance to any religion even if it's their own
lineage this person actually wants to elevate themselves above religion they
feel they need to ReDiscover what Divinity is what Dharma
is and such a person will be much more actually broad-minded open-minded it's
like saying then you have somebody like
Kabir you can tell them about all kinds of religion all kinds of background for Kabir God is one for
Kabir everything is love for Kabir everything is acceptable and everything
is you know great that's what happens with ninth Lord and the fourth house such a person
will find it hard to just want to follow they always want to dissolve something of it and create something
new which is because it's ninth Lord and the fourth but no matter what happens
especially in the mother's life mother always tends to be a little bit fortunate and it's not like mother may
be extremely wealthy those are different scenarios and placements you know in the
chart we see but somehow there's always a factor of luck that is always just
there like to sustain stain the home the mother and with ninth Lord in the fourth
house you will see the moment you purchase your first property that's when your bhia becomes
active the fortune helps the luck helps one actually becomes open up one opens
up to religion one opens up to Divinity this also happens when you buy a new
car there will be some activity related to father religion lineage that becomes
active so this is the understanding of
ninth Lord in the fourth house so F uh ninth Lord in the fifth house um you
will see in your lifetime whenever you teach kids when
birth of children happens in your own life when you have you know students
subordinates underneath you your rise of luck happens okay when you move the lineage
forward in your life your rise of luck
happens now yes I do know that there are people who may not want to have kids and
that doesn't mean that their luck is shunned out no there are people who may not be able to have kids does that mean
your luck is shunned out no what listen to what I said earlier on
work with kids and how do you work with kids teach them about
Dharma Dharma again is not religious knowledge but it's literally represents
the truth of the roots of people roots of
who you are as a person when you especially like the
lineage that you come from and you help that pass forward you know let's say for
example in us there are people living in Appalachia they have their own culture
they have their own lineage own belief system compared to rest of the United
States and some people will look them you know as either Hillbillies or
will'll look them you know as these weird people up in the you know South
but they're enriched with their
culture so it doesn't matter somebody's born in Appalachia somebody's born in New Deli somebody's born in um Romania
it don't matter you got to push forward what your culture has
been the other thing with n Lord in the fifth house usually such a
person will be taught because your intelligence is actually connected with
your lineage you will always hear in your family that when they come when
they refer to you when they talk about you oh my God this person's Behavior their intelligence is exactly like my
dad or my great or my grandfather like your parents will say that they're like
you behave exactly like them so usually what happens is um because fifth house
is intelligence that intelligence of
the lineage of the paternal lineage has passed in yourself this happens with many
combinations ninth Lord in the fifth House Ninth Lord conjunct the fifth house or fifth Lord ninth Lord is in the
nakshatra of the fifth Lord
that's so you somehow your intelligence to understand things works on the
lineage for example like I love
astrology and it's not just my uncle that I found out it's my
grandfather that loved astrology which is why my Uncle Al also understood
astrology this is how so that intelligence Works in that particular
matter in certain cases this is also known as lakmi yoga for example if ninth the Lord is in
the fifth house especially you know in its exalted position like for Gemini
ascendant that's a lakmi yoga it represents great wealth coming
through knowledge great wealth coming through a person's creative
ability it also shows one of your um
paternal ancestors were also a Performing Artist the love performing and
entertaining people they may not be doing it professionally maybe especially in their days it wasn't as easy at all
especially if let's say you go back three four generations back where there may not have even been a
television but they they entertained
people they they were able to be creatively you know uh make people
laugh and this is one of those position of ninth Lord in the fifth house that naturally the more a person learns the
better your uh luck becomes you should always keep learning
something new the more you know the better
your intelligent works and especially nth Lord in the
fifth house is that position where your child one of your children will be one
of your ancestors reborn as your child
okay and especially fifth house is 9th from the 9th it is the bhat bham of the
ninth house so usually such people always love
history always love travel always love to like
especially you know people who like to dig into their past like whether it's
paleontologist archaeologists historians they always tend to have this
these placements now in order for them to become that of course you know other
combinations have to be involved but there are people who might be accountants but they just love to
understand that particular part of life itself so it's a very blessed position
in a way unless of course like I always say in every single one of these if a
planet is hemmed you know planet is in a certain degree certain dignity then yeah
those things then have to be dealt with and looked upon and to see how it can be
improved you know if it's retrograde as well a person
have to do repeatedly things connected with the fifth house to improve their
luck you know a person especially like a retrograde
Planet you know will show certain setbacks before a person rises in
life okay so now we are looking at Ninth Lord in the sixth house so then you have
uh ninth Lord in the 6th so obviously when ninth Lord in the
sixth it shows one has to fight for
their luck for their bhagya and here's the thing the more a person deals with
enemies animosity you know
struggles the more a person wins you don't realize this is actually
a this can be probably one of the most a really great
placement n9th Lord in the 6th it can be one of those
placements that if let's say a person is an Army Marine police officer even an
athlete they can go to the greatest height like if let's say you started out in Army one day you might be a colonel
because what are you doing your your your job your your life itself it
professionally exists on the existence of
enemy and one thing we also see is that father
would have a very strong career father
would himself would be at an extremely competitive
individual somebody who would um take no for an answer and the other thing it's part of
your pending Karma it's part of your pending
Karma to deal with the karma of the
father usually ninth FL and the sixth shows that either a person it's going to
be one of the other either a person has to deal with the debts of the father actual real debts like Financial
debts or at one point father kind of becomes your competition or your enemy
and you have to work through those things you know like best example would be if you ever watch that show Orange
County Choppers okay where the father I forgot his
name um Turtle right yeah used to fight every day with his
son his older son and at one point he also left Orange
County Chopper started his own thing and now they're competing against each other yet they still love each other but
they're competing against each other so those things would be taking place
with this position and on the other hand you will also see
sometimes especially in like close relations you know like Indians Italians
Middle Easterns Asians in our
particular culture usually father can even work with the in-laws like or not
in-laws sorry they're or they your well yeah in-laws like your maternal aunts
and uncles he may have some um profession
happening through them there would be some borrowing or taking of the debt or
giving money to them but now let's say if you are in a
regular career regular you know place you may not feel like you're
thriving cuz if you have a very safe job secure job where you don't deal with
competition you feel like my luck is just not helping me the only time luck will help you is
when you go into the most competitive space to focus on your
career cuz you want luck right you don't just want luck in terms of finding the
right house luck finding great friends luck having great children cuz
all of that is in this particular day and age of kug will be
supported through money through career
through wealth so if you want to generate that you got to go into the most competitive
space that's where like like for example if instead of looking for a salary
job as a computer programmer you should go into a startup or company that says
the one who does this type of a coding the fastest gets the best money or more
money in our work kind of like imagine a commission-based
coding job I'm pretty sure there might be that concept that you only get paid
on what is done or delivered whatever the scenario might be I don't know
that in that places you will Thrive with this position so it's all
about aligning if you align yourself then you feel like luck is going to help you I mean you can be a
multi-millionaire with 10 ninth Lo in the six house but if you go into a safe space safe place that then then don't
complain that my luck is not helping me okay same way now let's talk about
ninth Lord in the 7th house so ninth Lord is in the seventh house
and this shows that father would either naturally will gain in his life father
will also be inclined towards business father will also be involved in your
marriage either finding the person for you helping you in your marriage financially helping you in your
marriage and Ninth Lord in the 7th can also show there will be a
restraint in a relationship with father and his Elder
sibling the other thing ninth Lord is the seventh right
so we are wanting to shine that luck we are wanting to shine you know your
bagya and because it's about the Dharma first of all your biggest part of
your dharm is going to be Devotion to marriage Devotion to
business and on the other hand because seventh
house is where Shani is exalted right so we see that especially
when a person the older the person gets especially in 30s that is when they
began to find their wheels in
motion and Ninth the Lord is in the seventh how do you think the luck will
activate luck activates naturally when a person gets is devoted
in the marriage gets married obviously is devoted in the marriage or unless a
person does business with their father cuz again 9th house
is luck but 9th house is Father 7th house is business and especially because
sth house also represents higher distinction you going to a much higher
distinction father will be involved in you going to a higher distinction or father like figure Mentor teacher
Guru on the other hand this also shows me whomever you
partner with when ninth Lord is in the seventh house whomever you partner with they
Prosper so in a way partnership becomes very good and prosperous for this
individual the other thing because of your birth it shows
there would be some form of higher
achievements in the father's side of the family overall for
people now again just like every
other placement I've said that if this position is
hemmed then it becomes difficult to you know get exactly what I'm showing
that the n Lord in the seventh will get in that case if there are hemming then you just have to align with
that hemming and then again it neutralizes and gives you what you want but that's the
thing the astrologer or the person studying this should know how to align
with those hemming this is actually simple okay but you just have to know
the significance and the aasta of those planets
like for example even if you knew the nagas connected with the
planets just dealing with their qualities will help you like sis
shag and then rahu is kulika not gika kulika nag so there's all these
different things but mainly if you have the
position with ninth Lord in the sth house
one will always find luck in Partnership luck in marriage and luck with the
father unless then you're not lucky enough to have such things in your
life okay so then we're going to look at Ninth Lord in the Eighth House nth Lord
is in the eighth house this person's bagya will benefit this
person when they get help through Tantra occult
mysticism and that is going to happen even an atheist at one
point will somehow come across this and they will not tell anybody and they'll keep saying I'm an
atheist and I believe in science I trust in science I hate this pseudo science but
they will still be taking the help of this B's ability to rise first of all it
happens suddenly you know those people suddenly just become
famous suddenly just get that role that just puts them on the map in the movies
and music bhagya has to suddenly
burst that's the first thing second is that somehow this if bhagya is supposed to
help you with ninth Lord in the eighth you are going to do certain
remedies in a cult in Tantra okay and some form of a hidden
Force through which your B will spurt the other thing ninth Lord is in the
eighth right here's the easy
thing massage your father's feet not just touch massage your father's
feet and especially you can even use like mustard oil as they do in India or any
oil that is connected with your ninth Lord cuz there is also different I don't
know uh which one they are but there are different oils connected with each planet okay whether it's vegetable oil
sesame oil olive oil mustard oil you can take that just take any oil
doesn't matter main thing is you're massaging the father's feet and specifically if you were to do
it on the day when the planetary day is like let's say
today is Monday your moon rules the ninth house sits in the e8th house in Gemini right so on Monday father's
feet if they're massaged your bhagya starts to become
active but don't see again the wrong perception is well here look I massaged
my father's feet you were wrong nothing happened you think universe is that stupid that just by doing this one thing
and now you're suddenly opening up everything no Universe wants to see one
thing con consistent devotion Universe works on
devotion you know it's like somebody gives you a secret meditation or secret
Kaa you think you're doing that Kaa one day sunle is going to do everything no because Kaa or any thing that is
given is kind of like rubbing off the two stones or Woods you rub rub rub rub
rub and slowly slowly it's getting hot hot warm warm then even warmer and then
suddenly smoke comes and that's when the fire happens Universe when it comes to a remedy wants to see devotion
and the other thing ninth Lord is in the Eighth
House usually you will find a person who will be there at the last
moment of touching the father's or guru's feet when they're passing away and even
then the father Guru guru's feet will become very important now the thing is
if if ninth Lord is retrograde you may not be at the end point of your father
or or the guru or both and especially it shows that the
lineage of the father was most definitely devoted to some secret god or
goddess there was a lot of like hidden
secrecies related and and usually you will find ninth or in the Eighth House
certain families are very like powerful and if they're powerful that
means they have some form of some form of hidden secret it's not
so easy to just get ninth Lord in the eth it is this one of those mysterious
positions that literally works on some form of a
power some form of hidden power is working with ninth Lord in the Earth
we also see with this that father would have had to leave home
very early in his own life
okay and especially whenever you do some form of a research
in your life especially let's say you're trying to attain your PhD you're doing some dissertation
you're doing any form of research whenever any subject requires research to be done and you actually do the
research not go on chat GPT so don't think that chat GPT is research no that's
cheating that's not that actually can ruin your ninth ninth house if it's
something that you're supposed to do on your own and not having an AI do it you
know it's like your teacher tells you to write a paper on this subject and study the use chat G that's cheating even
though it's not like I'm saying it's bad or good it's great I can I might refine
my script on it you know of or or look for writing something for my article
okay yeah cuz I'm doing it CU I don't care for the research part I'm just writing something but if I'm supposed to
research and then I'm just using chat GPT to create the paper of research that
can actually damage your ninth house CU you're not actually putting the work
towards the research but if you put the work towards the research but the chat GPT as your
assistant then you will see your ability to raise your luck like you will always find your
luck in getting A's in your research like the teacher said go do
research this and let's say everybody used chat GPT 4 or five or
six and yet you not only used that but you actually did the work of research
with the help of that you will always find that success see it's all about
activation activation of bagya for example whenever I I and I've actually
seen this when somebody says you know I how can I get a promotion I haven't gotten a
promotion how do I raise my luck I feel unlucky you know what I told them I told them go learn
astrology take some course in as ology you don't have to do it with me
just go take it somewhere learn something learn jotish not because you you need to make
money from it just do it I say see what happens in 3
months I don't know if I I don't usually save these emails but they get a new job
offer within I think like two months why because they just aligned
themselves with their luck with their luck part like for
example if you keep your father's
shoes like in your office like especially like something special or a
guru's shoes your luck will always be there with
you now you can do that if your ninth Lord is in the sixth fifth fourth now I'm only simply saying ninth Lord in the
earth now think about it why I said
now if you don't know simple eighth house is 12th from the 9th
house what is the 12th house feet and what do we wear on the feet
shoes and what is shoes Saturn and Saturn is what your
career so when you respect shoes of your father or Guru in your work space what
do you think's going to happen your luck related to your work becomes
active I just gave you guys the best remedy out there
okay so this was our ninth Lord through houses and remember my 2025 horoscope is
on Caris Vlogs on maab exology Academy and I'll put something new as well there as
well bye-bye for
[Music] so ladies and gentlemen welcome to D
Lord through houses okay um as in just like our series we're
going to be doing 10th Lord through houses and as always if you do not know
where your 10th Lord is placed what sign it's in what nakshatra it's in along
with all the other astrological details for that check out the link here car astrology.com where you'll find my books reports consultations and link to my
Academy makab astrology Academy where especially I uploaded three new videos under Caris vogs about
some major events that will take place next year and two events this year literally I think March and April so
just a little I can discuss those things here so I've done that and of course 2025 horoscope for all the ascendants
are on Caris blogs as well which is all almost like 20 30 minutes long some even
like I think went to 35 minutes so now let's talk about 10th Lord through
houses and of course then what what is also the 10th house 10th house is
the battleground of society where you go and perform
something it is the environment of the society you get 10th house is also the
wealth of your father speech of your father family of your
father the value of the father okay 10th house is also
government Authority bosses 10th house also represents the
struggles of your children 10th house represents the transformation of your
siblings 10th house also represents the luck of your family the luck of your
bank account it represents many many
things okay so now let's go
through lord of the 10,000 different houses so obviously when 10th Lord is in
the 10th house it's considered a very obviously a very positive position to have right what it does anytime a lord
is in its own placement it has the strength and that
strength does not mean some glorious glorifying David and Goliath likee
strength what it shows is the form of stability like 10th Lords in the 10th
house person finds their way to their
destination they find their satisfactory balance in life of work life balance
okay um 10th word in the 10th house it shows that the
foundation of a person's ability to perform karma is
strong but see now we look for
boosters what is going to boost this 10th Lord where a person can go from a
normal manager supervisor retiring at 65 nice simple life to someone like Elon
Musk and Jeff Bezos see that requires boost see the
10th Lord is going to require
ambition and that ambition is actually not in the 10th house that amb ambition is always with
moon always with moon and Jupiter until you find that absolute
inspiration motivation F frustration from the life that you're living only then things can
happen and I've always said this that yoga that you have in your
birth chart whether it's Raj yoga Dan yoga all kinds of
yoga it only takes place when moon is giving permission for
that yoga to be activated I'll tell you how I actually just did a
reading of somebody's wife and she does
merchandising okay marketing and Merchandising for a company and hasn't
been promoted for 14 years and when I saw her I'm like like
she shouldn't be doing what she's doing she needs to go into this completely different
avenue of dealing with media doing your own business but business has to have involvement of
kuu okay whether it's fashion designing whether it's connected with um
cooking culinary arts accounting but the thing is if the
person's mind says nah I don't want to do this this is not what I want to do I
just want to do this this is where my mind is so you see now that yoga that is saying that here's your money here's all
the wealth power that is there in your chart it's not going to be 100% to its
potential because your mind is like well I don't really care to achieve it and when the time comes it doesn't
fructify to 100% it fructifies to 20% 30% cuz it does have to give you
something so maybe maybe just within the company you kind of like increase your um
ranks so 10th floor in the 10th house is a safe position but it does not mean
anything more glorious and it 10th house 10th Lord in the 10th house can be
damaging as well cuz you want to see which planets are influencing the 10th house and hemming the 10th
house because then the person is going to be in an environment that they're going to be pushed to the breaking limit
the person is going to be surrounded with enemies person may not have any form of
a great relation with their authorities and bosses and that's what's going to frustrate them especially if they don't have the combinations to do business but
only two combinations to do a job okay but if we do see in the chart
10th Lords in the 10th house okay we're like okay this person has a strong
Foundation to build upon their career they always tend to find that Safeguard
place like no matter if the person has switched 20 job 30 jobs the job is
there the paycheck is coming in no matter what even if it's little bit at least you can go to McDonald's and buy
yourself a cheeseburger and stay alive right so there's all these little
differences you know of how the 10th Lord needs to behave or will behave
usually the more malefic you know uh the influence on a
person's life is the better they do why because they have dealt with so much
animosity in their life poverty in their life that they're like I need to break free so that ambition is like kind of
like just tearing up and becoming Superman when usually you have a lot of
exalted and molon planets it's like a person is always just gets things
normally and so the ambition is not there they're like hey I got a good life
you know like for example I've seen a lot of firefighters especially in
us who retire with a full salary 150,000 100,000 you know 880,000
and they're like that's it I'm good and they might be good right that's that's
it that's their goal they achieved it so that's how you want to look at this now
let's look at 10th Lord in the 11th house then of course you have
uh 10th Lord sitting in the 11th house now basically what we have
known on one end that okay 11th house gives you
recognition gains Social Circles okay fulfillment of
desires but here's a this is a trick placement because you can't understand
astrology by looking at what the word is saying in a
book you got to see charts and so what happens
is with 10th Lord in the 11th house it can give
achievements but at the same time it can also become a
[Music] blocker because this is where you
understand something known as bades and mahab
bakesh okay so for certain
ascendants you know 11th house naturally becomes bhadak like for all the movable
ascendants 11th house is going to be bakesh but the thing is 11th house is naturally is
badak okay and there's two definitions to it
one is that it's a badak which gives you high achievements meaning you deal
with hurdles enemies big competition big enemies to achieve your
success that's one bad that helps you overcome and this is where you find very
successful people who had to go through such circumstances that it was
impossible for them to ever think of themselves being that successful and then on the other
hand it naturally becomes an obstacle like people within your workspace cuz
remember what I said 10th house is the battlefield right so people within the
battlefield who are supposed to be there fighting the battle with you become the obstacles and obviously 10th
house becomes the obstacle uh especially when it come concerning your
supervisor bosses okay those people can naturally
become the obstacle and that's always What I Hear I've seen too many of these
particular placements where achievements is to happen but it's becoming a
blockage okay and of course the third point of 10th Lord in the 11th house
will also depend upon the timing like if a person runs through the
Dasha of the 10th lordo sits in the 11th house and it's conditioned surrounding
it cuz 10th Lord in the 11th house okay great it helps you achieve higher success okay that's the definition we
stick with it but why is it that then 10 out of 10 people are not getting those
particular achievements because the 10th Lord in the 11th house is surrounded by
enemies perhaps if let's say 10th Lord becomes retrograde it makes you do
things repeatedly to achieve your success so this is what's happening
although yes 10th Lord is second from itself is there to feed itself in the
11th house so one of the most important thing that comes when 10th Lord is in the 11th house is that you better become
a people pleaser people person you know when people feel like ah
too many people are kissing ass of the boss or of people to get
ahead and it's done too much now and people recognize it but guess what it
definitely helps this person may not help you with your 10th Lord in some other house you need to
create contacts you need to know contacts you need to keep up your relationship with
them even if a person has to fake it to please
someone to you know laugh with their nonsensical
jokes when it won't make sense this person if they play that chess
game they naturally um gain that position in life
that they need cuz the support system of the 10th house is sitting in the 11th of
large organizations large committees and group of people they're the one deciding
your Battlefield okay so in order for you to
achieve things if let's say your moon and again we come back to the Moon
again um if the moon doesn't allow you to be so Social cuz being social is all the
construct of the mind and if that's not allowing you and yet your 10th Lord is in the
11th you will probably not fructify that particular
position and yeah I get it and understandable like I wouldn't be one of
those people if I had that position especially with my mindset because I'm an introvert I'm a hermit
I'm secluded I like just being you know
within my own cave so for me to go out and pretend like Oh Yes Network circles
and I have to know everybody at the right place for me it will not work out because it's like I'll feel like I have
to now act once in a while it just fine but to constantly do that yeah that becomes a
headache so if the moon allows you to be social and you love being social and then you have 10th Lord in the 11th
house then Skies becomes the limit even if let's say 11th house Lord or 10th Lord is in a hard position well okay
fine you have to take extra steps compared to the person B to get to your
you know destination but it is going to allow you with that sheer hard work so malefic
simply says they're Gatekeepers We're The Gatekeepers you're going to have to fight us to get in there ultimately if
you fight they're is a chance to win but you're going to have to fight so then when 10th Lord goes in the
12th house this position actually to be honest with you is actually better than
even 10th Lord in the 11th this may not have been the case
maybe 10 20 30 40 40 years ago 4 50
years ago okay now this is actually the placement that creates a very successful
environment for an individual the reason being the world is
a transient Global
Village the transmigration of Multicultural uh
groups is extremely common now
and what is the 12th house 12th house represents a far away foreign Place
something far isolated from your home your familiarities your food your
culture your Gods you don't know your loved
ones now 10 12th house represents losses it's actually not losses it's
it's more represents letting go okay it is the house of Moka Moka is
about letting go we think of it as a loss 12,
Investments 12,000 donations okay so one thing we see is that because
it's so common for people to move from one country to another uh it's not just
like from India people are wanting to come to United States literally now I'm
sure you guys know in India so many foreigners are there like if you go to
Bangalore white people Asian people Europeans are just just uh even Africans
they're like normal they are now you know they got they get opportunities to
work so this is why it becomes a very great placement that that instead of a
person feeling lost as it would have been the case back in the old days when the opportunity was
not there so easily and readily for you to move now it actually shows that a
person is going to gain fruits of their karma in a foreign
Place why because if you look at the 12th house it
is third from the 10th house so being third from the 10th
third house represents your effort and the fruit of that
effort actually if you really want to see bat bham of the third house which is the fifth
house L really becomes the fruit which also the house of children right so but
third house is where that effort is put in so usually the 10th Lord in the third
house shows that one reaps the results of their effort in a far away Place meaning you're going to have to be out
of your comfort zone in order for you to
um gain your success at the same time 12 house is also hospitals
Laboratories asylums okay so here
um we usually like see that a person if let's say they're in their own
Homeland usually a person will be a type of individual who will like working
behind the scenes who likes working you know in a
back end of things usually 12th house is also
theaters like Cinema because Cinema is something which is dark right and of course I I think
probably maybe within the next 5 or 10 years Cinemas are is going to be
like uh what 1920s technology was cuz nobody's caring for movies
anymore most likely the the movies are just not going to exist
and if they do they're just going to be too saturated cuz if now anybody can make a
movie I can make a movie you can make a movie you know so it's not that
valued so when 10th Lord is in the 12th house the more you are away from your own
familiar situation the better actually the individual
does okay and especially 10th lordo in the 12th house the person puts in the most
effort in terms of their Battleground their career and also because 10th Lord is in the 12th
house usually a person can find their ancestors being self-made self-sufficient maybe
doing some Merchant or business especially from their paternal lineage
side and also yeah you can see that um the paternal lineage would have also
migrated from one place to another far away they and of course that's like it's
a case with 90% of the lineages everybody has settled from somewhere you
know it's not really a a great analysis to make but yeah they all like to put their
own effort like they like paternal lineage never really just received easy support in life they just made it on
their own and of course
um it also shows that father's wealth would have really come through
ancestral land [Music] motherland you know mother would have
been quite involved in generating the wealth of the father side would have had
their stronghold regardless of the era
okay so now we look at 10th Lord in the
ascendant so then 10th Lord is in the ascendant
and this is one of those positions where the identity of a person
is actually defined by their work
like if you ask a person with 10th Lord in the ascendant like who you are
they'll say I'm a programmer I'm a
lawyer no who are you what do you mean who am I
well I'm somebody who wants to bring a change into the world I'm somebody who wants to become a
CEO what happens is their identity is always tied to what Karma they're
performing in society and world this is this is those position where you know when you
say things like this person is married to their
work this is that position where a person is is married to their work the
work which is the 10th house not your career what you're going to do that could be you could be a surgeon and your
10th sword is in the ascendant you could be an accountant 10th swords in the ascendant it's not defining the type of
work you're doing it's saying what does this mean what is the 10th house is doing
10th house is coming to you usually you will see this person
tends to have opportunities come to them whether they take it or not whether they're qualified or not but
opportunities always tend to come to them okay
um with also 10th Lord in the ascendant the individual likes to be responsible
for their own work like for example they want to do their own
business they want to be the one in charge of that work
environment the other thing usually such a person becomes very
idealistic they have this ideal concept of the world because see
they're influenced who they are who we are is the ascendant and it's being influenced by Society the 10th
house so when they see people in of the 10th house whether it's president Prime
Ministers celebrities athletes nowadays you can say
influencers they feel like yes this is the ideal way to be the way this
individual is so their identity is always somehow connected to an authority a big
authoritative figure in life like how who they are trying to kind of manifest
into usually 10 Lord in the ascendant people become very involed in that being an athlete
Sports you know because an athlete is known for their physical
body with with the physical body that they're known to be whoever they are you know the brain is one part of it
but you're loving an athlete because of what they can do with their body so whether it's an athlete whether
it's a Fitness training somebody even just playing Just Sports as a teenager and in their 20s
it's uh you know that's what kind of activates this person's
identity again like idolizing somebody and trying to be that somebody but it
also confirms that a person has the ability to be recognized for their from
for their work or for the work that they do people kind of respect them uh you
know um recognize them now of course some of this
recognition may come very slow some can come very quickly you know depending
upon if the 10th Lord in the ascendant is Saturn or 10th Lord in the ascendant is Mercury or Moon
so those will have the different Dynamics but the main thing to understand and also you'll get strongly
G influenced by your mother-in-law mother-in-law can play a big part with 10th Lord in the
ascendant um and a person also a younger when
they're younger in age strongly get impacted by father's family like they'll
be much more closer to Father's family than mother side of family the father side of family kind of
gives them their Identity or gives them you know their development in their
development stages okay person also gets developed
through the speech of the father whatever father told you somehow
impacted you and who you are and who you
were whether it was negative or positive for them we have to see what angle the 10th Lord is sitting
in and who is it sitting with but speech of the father will impact strongly into
your psyche and who you have become and who you are
okay now we look at 10th Lord in the second house so now you have 10th Lord
in the second house right which most definitely shows that somehow
your battleground of profession is going to be strongly influenced by the
family and is specifically the side of the paternal side of
family because 10th house is naturally the second from the 9th House of father so
it's Father's family so you most likely now usually people won't have you know
lot of understanding or history of their own family so much but if you dig deep
no matter what you're doing even if let's say you're a software programmer right how is it that your
lineage is connected with it well you got to think of it with a little bit more open mind that
perhaps your great-grandfather some uncle was very
good at building and making things out of metal in like engineer and making
Motors back in the 1900s or in 1810s people came to him to you know
create all these mechanical things so that has just that technical part get
gets transferred onto you it it has to be that the other
thing your work is going to require for you to
speak and I've seen this many of times where a person who is struggling in
let's say especially in a coding work because coding does not require you to
talk they don't do really good in in those particular
situations like people feel that they're not progressing why they're not progressing
because this part is not being used the speaking part is not being used
until they of course go from a natural normal programmer to
management position where now they have to talk to employees your speech is what wins you
into your Battleground and especially 10th Lord in the second house second house is the
face that means the more this person is recognized the more this
person's face is Rec recognized by people the better their work becomes and
then better their money becomes and the other thing because 10th Lords in the second house yes a person
can work for family business you know uh F whatever work the family is doing
but this is also one of the combinations to do
business because the work is now heading directly to you in your
environment in your family family environment this is why I said that you usually a person likes to follow in the
footsteps of the family but also this is a position of a person to do business
because this is also known as sasan yoga when 10th Lord is in the second
house sasan meaning the King's throne the Lion's Throne so in order to be a lion a person
has to be either a president CEO you know of a company they have to be the
head person now this doesn't mean that every single person with 10th l in the second house can do business this is one
of the combinations because the main combination is going to be the relationship between Saturn and Mercury which will show if a person is able to
do business and be successful at it because otherwise the 10th Lord in the second house if the business is happening and the combination not there
then they're going to have to do partnership in order for that to
work but the main thing is that you want to improve your work you want to improve
your work conditions one is going to have to speak for a
living whether one goes into even if let's say you're in software in Tech going into it
sales even unless you're a coder and things are just you know snail pace
you're not and especially now the market is so saturated because every single uh
one out of every four students three students is doing computer engineering so what's going to happen is like that
selective Market is now becoming wider like for example movie industry is going to be
done it's um it's pretty much over you know
because anything is so Democratic now because I'm seeing just from your cell
phone you can create effects that you would have required a $20 million budget
to make when that happens just like you know we used to have blacksmiths back in the days so
now they they're over there is more of a novelty and if you go to a museum somebody will dressed up like an old
school blacksmith and showing you how to do things that's it that's how it's going to be okay and people's interest in
naturally in entertainment is gone down cuz it's everywhere now you're not just turning on your one or two channels or
your 50 channels and that's it it's everywhere anywhere you could be in a bathroom you
can be on a plane you could be at a park and you have have a million choices not
just a thousand million choices you know but if let's say you are somebody who's
a programmer what you need to do find a way to speak meaning have your social
media account get on social media start talking about all the projects that are
required whatever the it and software requires talk about it I don't care you
don't need to make money from social media you don't think that it's going to somehow enhance your money on the side
it may not what it does do it keep it improves your 10th house
conditions now this doesn't mean that okay if you're an IT professional you start talking about politics on social
media because then your corporation is not going to be happy with it nobody was going to be happy with
it but if you were to just stick to let's say your own work and you talk about
that you are constantly enhancing your 10th
house okay you're constantly enhancing your 10th house so this is why it's important to
do this when your 10th Lord's in the second house okay next is going to be 10th Lord
in the third house bradz hi Brad nobody can see you Brad so
10 swords in the third house well first of all this is a one of the
most prominent placement for people who want to do their own
business they want to do things through their own effort one likes to just take on
responsibility on their own and do things now because this placement is
there that doesn't mean that okay well you're going to be able to do business you have to have
um other placement like relationship between Saturn and Mercury for you to do
business otherwise you can definitely do business in Partnership and because 10th Lords in
the third house you will see
your the the the Improvement of your work
environment whatever that may be happens when you begin to communicate
like for example if you go into Media Marketing sales social media and
just being active on social media it helps your career and here's the
thing 10th Lord in the third house the more
positive you speak out in public the more you inspire people
the more you uplift people even though the situation is dire you improve your career you improve
your work environment so for example let's say you
are you know let's say you're an engineer and in your
country big war is happening you don't know when you're going to get attacked let's say you're
in Israel but if let's say you begin to talk to people about you know what we'll beat
this we're always going to win we're always going to be okay we're going to
be saved from all kinds of attack so what are you doing in the
darkest of hours you're giving a hope and this is why when you do
something in your life it always there's a side effect it's kind of like pharmaceutical medicines you take one thing it'll have
have 10 different side effects that is talking about on the back of their bottle so with you
talking you even entertaining people somehow it's improving your
career even though you have nothing to do with media like I even gave an example of
um Warren Buffett cuz I think Warr Buffett is a Capricorn
ascendant with Venus in the third and without out knowingly or
unknowingly Warren Buffett has been in media for 50 years 60 years if not
more L literally from his uh Coca-Cola days and when he uh bought
birkshire he's been in news so he's always been part of media always been
you know uh talking about markets this and that so because of that his Venus has always been active
so what is Venus Venus is money and what did he always talk about
money and stocks what's he investing in what's happening in the economy because Venus
is also economy Venus is sociology Venus's uh you know um media and or or
creative part Venus's law
policies so subconsciously him doing this helped
it and the other thing your your
strength and ideas you know that have come about
depending upon how you grew up usually will always be inspired through your
father's family maybe somebody in Father's family let's say becomes an is
officer and you meet them you talk to them and they give you this inspirational story of how they did it
and why they couldn't see anybody including you for the last four years cuz they were just completely immersed
in that in those studies you know passing that exam and so you feel this
inspiration that wow here's my uncle or cousin doing this I'll be able to
achieve good success as well and also
you will see when because 10th Lord is a third third house is
writing whenever you write and especially like you know people who have journals when you write
something about your goals achieving goals your professional goals things you want to achieve in the next 5 years 10
years such people are able to actually do it see if you have sixth Lord in the
third house fifth floor and the third it may not work unless you work with those houses
but here when a person says I want to get a promotion I want to be in a uh
authoritative position I want to be higher up and they're right about it it helps them achieve those things why
because by riding which is the third house and the lord of the 10th is in the
third what are you doing you are activating that 10th house somehow some way but especially your activating it
through its significance the significance here is it's in the third house of communication third house of
writing and what was I saying earlier get on media and start talking
uplift people 10th or in the third okay whether it's from the
ascendant or the moon when you help others when you inspire others you will always have a good
career you will always have some form form of
um kind of blessings come to
you and the earlier you recognize it the better it
is okay but one thing you will see when it comes to profession and whatever
achievements you have had in your life this far they have come through your effort
sheer effort of yours and yours only it's not like somebody's sitting there
wanting to give you everything in your life cuz that's not that position the
position is got to do it on your own but you can achieve it like you'll start something from zero and take it to like
a billion that's the achievement okay now we're going to look
at 10th Lord in the fourth house so you have 10th Lord in the fourth house right
this shows that the individual is going to like to work out on the
field meaning 10th house is where your office
is where you go to work now fourth house is directly opposite to the 10th
house it is the furthest point from the 10th house so what happens is such a person
does not Thrive and neither they like to just be in the office
they want to be out in the field like for example um let's say you work for a city you work for your local
government and let's say you're working for a water district and so what happens is you like
a position where they will give you a truck and tell you that you're going to have to go around the city and check for
the meters okay you have to go around the city and check for the meters so what
are you doing you have you your career in the 10th house but the thing is you're out in the
field you're working for a government or some environmental
Corporation and they're setting you out uh you know studying
rocks you're kind of doing a bit of a geological
work out in the field you're you're like for example you're working for a telecommunication company
and you take a position of going out and checking all the cell towers and if there's something wrong with the cell
towers you'll see what's wrong and then you'll call for the mechanics you'll call for this you call for that so
that's what takes place okay so and it's funny um I almost
got a job I remember with T-Mobile it was or somebody
else back in 2000 8 or n regarding um
cell towers and I thought it was going to be some normal job and they're like
well you guys are gathered here and we we need a team for cuz I didn't understand what I was applying for I
just needed a job and they were going to train people to go and look at dishes
out that are like up on the antenna I'm like no cuz I had no clue it was too
complicated for my brain you know my brain is works very simple it's too simple
actually so but see these are the type of work environments that you will thrive in like 10th FL in the fourth
house can easily make a great real estate agent because your job is to be outside and showing people properties
looking at properties bidding on properties going into auctions so those things become
active now yeah you can say 10th Lord in the fourth house if a person works from
home remote work that itself becomes beneficial for you and that is even
double beneficial of Venus is in the fourth unless Venus is your 10th L to the fourth
house because again your work environment is the 10th
house and fourth house is the place away from your work environment even though it's your own
home but what happens is because your 10th of the house Lord sits in the
fourth house of home when you work from home your 10th house is fully awakened
and working and I suggest this to many people who have 10th Lord in the fourth
house that even if you're going to the office and working um set up if you have a
space give a separate room for your home office where when you come back from
work and after dinner you want to look at some emails and even even play some video games or look at some social media
you go into that office and you look at your
computer because just having that will improve and keep your 10th
house activated so it doesn't mean you have to have that uh you know position outside
of work you don't have to be out in the field
you because you're creating the field within the home and that's what benefits you this
is also the position well it's not for everyone you
know you can have 10 out of 10 people sometimes having this position and they will not go for these things
but it is a position of a person to kind of be involved in
politics your work is to deal with with people of the
Homeland okay now what are you going to do for the people of the Homeland your city one chart will say You're supposed
to be a lawyer so you're going to be a lawyer for the city one chart is saying
you should be a plumber working for the water district okay one chart is saying you're going to be an IT professional
working for urban planning you know in your government and then the other is
saying okay you're going to go into politics and office
because 10th and fourth Lord connection is needed whether it's 10th Lord in the fourth house 10th Lord in the nakshatra
of the fourth house fourth Lord the sign of the 10th Lord or nakshatra it's like
once you make this uh wire connection uh you can see you know in
the Dasha of that Lord that sign or the nakshatra Lord Dasha it'll activate
interest in those things and if let's say you have a Raj yoga then you will probably make it if the other person's
raaj yoga is not as good as you and especially if Mars is transiting 11th from your dasap Pati you'll
win dasap Asen the making the Dasha Lord the ascendant and seeing where Mars
is look at Trump's chart he had Mars 11th from his Das
shapati 181 including even um Jake Paul versus
Tyson okay then we have 10th Lord in the fifth house uh it's funny right now we're
doing 10th floor in the fifth house I'm pretty sure from the moment you started the video my beard has
grown right uh cuz literally you guys it's taking me a week to make this video
cuz I spent so much time it's just that I I get I get tired so I do like 2
three every day so today we're doing 10th floor in the fifth house okay
so obviously your work environment is in the fifth right so that means this
person until their work and environment
becomes a playground for this
individual they will not enjoy their work unless their
work environment you know becomes a fun full
with games filled with freedom of creativity they cannot enjoy their work
so much and this especially
shows that a person will somehow will and actually they will
require okay either subordinates under
them students under them or working with children in
general and the other thing the enhancement
of one's career actually takes place post the birth of children
but one thing you will notice is that usually and I've seen
this mostly in like females chart the 10th Lord in the fifth house after birth
the women will have to take time off or a break not even like 2 or 3 months
think sometimes it's 2 3 years long this is and it depends on the degree of the planet that it sits in and
you look at the degree of the ascendant and you have to like do a certain calculations and the difference will show how long after the birth of
children you will uh be off and but the thing is with 10th Lord
in the fifth house um the the work environment has to
be created but also the more this person you know
educates themselves the better their work becomes like you know how you would uh go and uh
attend conferences you will take courses you keep improving your work
through some form of Education when those things happen then your work increases then your work
improves so you always want to you know keep
learning and the other thing we also see mostly
um or at least certain amount of people in your father's family
will do very secretive work very hidden work things that require secrecy
confidentiality and we also see there is a big transformation big change right after
your birth in Father's family like for example somehow the whole you know family were
staying in a big home maybe your father wasn't but it was known that okay this is our
family home this is our Kumba but after your birth there is this
Division and after that division the property was sold off or after your
birth suddenly everybody that was nearby moved away to different
places the paternal lineage goes through a transformation with your
birth but the thing is you're you're you're not responsible for that it is
simply show indicating that hey the time is now coming for uh this lineage to go through a
change and transformation sometimes you know lineages just end like for
example after your birth only girls are born they're grown up they're married
off and then nobody's there to carry on that you know family name
I don't know if anybody cares for that um I I never could Everything Changes
Everything dies there's no need to keep carrying on something um but yeah those those are
the things that you know take place in a person's uh uh life uh post
birth and you also see father himself you
know would be very secretive with his is
communication father's voice like Father may actually be a great you know singer
has a great creative voice you know sometimes even not professionally father
can like mimic and you know make up
voices of other musicians and actors so naturally and then also
father's own wealth goes through a transformation after your
birth now is that good or bad we'll have to see the conditions of your 10th Lord
in the fifth house and we can see oh okay father's father suddenly became a
multi-millionaire you know and usually father can also attain inheritance after your
birth so those things will take place now let's do 10th Lord in the
sixth house now with 10th Lord in the sixth
house this is one of the best placement for your 10 sword to
be okay on one
hand it shows a workaholic meaning if this person does not have
work they feel like they don't have that
worth okay so that's what takes place the second
thing this is the position that'll make a person very
competitive they feel like they must you know defeat competition defeat things in
their life to feel like they have achieved something you know it's kind of like
lying like lion does not want to be fed a tiger doesn't want to be fed they
want to hunt is there is there in their instincts and their
DNA that when they hunt and they eat the the food tastes much better than just
hand it to them then on the other hand okay 10th Lord in the sixth
house I was just about to say this I don't know if you guys hear it penny come here
Penny Penny baby so Dan FL in the sixth house right
I was about to say something about pets and then she started meowing so I'm like
okay so this obviously shows that a person wants to take care of things they
want to protect things they want to serve things and sixth house is a house
of pet and this then shows me as an omen 10 SW in the sixth
house get a pet since it's a cat I would say get a cat if you can get
a dog as well you like dogs you get dogs having a pat taking care of a pet will
naturally you know uh help ensure the activation of your 10th Lo in the 6th
house cuz then in that case the signal is going back to the 10th house that hey we got to become active we got to give
this person more work we got to P give this person more responsibility on the other hand also
then 10th Lord in the um sixth house
will also show you that one is lucky in their
career one finds luck cuz 10th Lord is ninth from
itself okay no oh no no no no so yeah as I was saying
because the 10th or is ninth from itself makes a person very lucky in matters of
career even especially in
business this position can really kind of help your clients to spend
money like spending their money to give you money cuz if a client spends money
what is it doing client is a 7th house 6th house is
12th from the 7th house that means they're contributing to your 10th
Lord and this is what happens is like you just need that one first customer to
come in when they give you that money then that momentum begins to build up
now next one will come and give you money because then again 10,000 is become becomes
active but like I said you know having pets
naturally it's an omen everything is an omen you know and you know how cats are not like I told Penny to just stay here
I'm going to make a video on 10th floor in the sixth house no it just she shows up she goes
away so that's what it is okay and then
um 10 Lord in the six house will also show
your paternal lineage May have actually been connected to your maternal
lineage you know like most of the time back in the days cousins got
married so then the paternal and maternal lineage is like the same but there will be some connection maybe your
father was introduced to your mother by somebody from her side of the
family so that link is connected okay now we'll do 10th Lord in
the seventh house 10th Lord is in the 7th house which is what bat bam of the
seven 10th house meaning is 10th from the 10th this is a highest position of the
10th house this is like you know 10 * 10 power
so what does this show first of all it shows that this individual
will again they can be very successful as long as they're not a
Scorpio ascendant if a person is a Scorpio ascendant that means 10th Lord in the
sth house becomes sun and this can make you very successful but there will
be uh two scenarios that you will have to deal with either this person will
have a good relationship with a father or good relationship with the spouse
never both at the same time and as the money increases and this
is what happens with sun in the 7th you money can increase but the
person Also may have to deal with a bit of humiliation either by the partner spouse
or the client like people will you'll be in a type of business where sometimes people come and just curse you you took
my money you did this you did gave me this bad product blah blah blah and then they'll shout at you and
leave and this is why this person has to kind of create uh heart of a rock but otherwise if the
10th Lord in the 7th house overall it creates a situation for business but it
also shows me the moment spouse comes in your
life okay the moment you get married what happens your 10th house
becomes activated your sth house becomes activated so marriage is the most
important for the spark of one's
career and usually when 10th Lord is getting involved in the sth house you will see somehow you will
always tell situations of your marriage to your co-workers where your co-workers may have to get involved in your
marriage may have to get involved in your relationships like for example you
confide in your colleagues and the colleagues is like okay fine how about we go and we talk to you know your
girlfriend and see what's going on I want to see you know I want to see what
she's like so let's just meet for drinks and I want to analyze what your boyfriend looks
like so the involvement of work takes place or like for example you'll confiding your boss about your marriage
and they want to kind of like help because that situation of the 10th house is going to the seventh usually such a
person will also get involved with people people from their work for their relationship for their
marriage but also um with 10th Lord in the seventh house
this is also this really shows um I think what was the other placement that I
said um yeah 10th Lord in the 11th house that
one and 10th Lord in the sth house these are two placements where if you're not
an outgoing person if you're not not an extrovert personality you will lose quite a bit in
life in terms of your professional um acolytes okay not
acolytes acolytes um you're going to have to like you're
going to have to engage with people if you want your profession and career to become become
solid like I know you want to be introvert you want to be a Hermit you don't want to deal with people so much
but if you just deal with it that's it you're dealt with them
great because now you are activating your profession so go out there meet cuz even
they might be just like you not wanting to talk to you not wanting to interact
with you so don't think just because you are unique and special and you are introvert
that the world is now against you no the world itself is nervous as nervous and as tensed as you just go out there and
do it and you will see the activation how your sth house you know give or your
10th Lord gives you the result in the seventh house
now we're going to look at um 10th Lord in the Eighth House
Lord in the 8 house what does this
show well if you were looking for the fact that I was going to say oh your
career is going to be completely ups and downs and you'll never have a great career well you came to the wrong place
because I don't care what the books are saying I don't care what someone's article is
saying I see normal successful people with 10 Lo in the eth house
amazing careers the only time you will see this
is when 10th Flor in the eighth house is in a very
uh you know crude position surrounded with enemies okay then you may have to look
at it but if 10th Lord is in the eighth house first of all you will see this person is very secretive about their
career you don't get to find out how this person made a deal in their
life how they got something done in their life but it
happened there's this vow of secrecy of how this person gets what
they get a lot of Agreements are
there and now and again I have you have to see if a person is you know atheist agnostic
you know theist or somebody who just like if somebody thinks astrology is a
pseudo science wait till they actually purposely in their most worst of
times go actually to a terror psychic or an astrologer to take help about their
career I tell you what they will not be the same
afterwards because this position is that one position where when
a person does remedy for their profession for their career it's going
to transform their career such people and then you will see
they can go really deep into jotish neology
Tantra you know um
yagnas secret ornaments such people can be given certain secret
ornaments to keep either with them or in the
home but at one point they
will and 10th swords in the Eighth House such
a person desires to be in a profession that is
dramatic that has some intensity to it that has secrecy
intensity and something that can change the world out there which is why
10th Lord in the eighth house is excellent for R&D research and
development but yeah you got to have to have combinations for research and development otherwise 10th Lord in the
eth simply shows that a person will work in an environment with a lot of agreements and confidential
confidentiality agreement ments one may have to rely on other people's assets to get their career
going um one will have to deal with emergencies in their career and I'm not talking about you
being an ER doctor like for example like just out of nowhere you're working but
then you now have to take your colleague to the hospital because some emergency
came or some emergency came that this piece of a contract that was there is
not there in the file today and everybody is ready ready to sign the
contract ready to make this deal and now you have to like suddenly in emergency Drive 2 hours out to just bring this one
piece of paper unless of course you can email that them that paperwork but maybe that
particular paperwork has a particular stamp that can only be used for a
particular signature I don't know but it it those type of things tend to happen so usually when a person is in a
environment where a lot of U fluctuations happen they do very well whenever you are in a career that is
um what do you call those uh career
um independent contractor right with that
temporary work the more you do temporary work in independent Contracting the more you
will do the more you will make for
example okay you work for a company for one year
contracts up and most likely if you're in a contract situation you'll be with an agency then agency will be like okay
well instead of Ron we have Loy Martin for the next two years you want to take this absolutely
when you do anything like that you you actually build wealth why because you're aligned with the 10th Lord in the eighth
house you're not looking for stability don't look for stability with 10th Lord
in the air thus if this is the only thing if there's one thing you want to take about this uh particular part of
the series 10th Lord in the eighth house please don't look for a stable career because believe me and trust me
you'll be disappointed don't look for a desk job that will last for 20 30 years you will
be grossly you know uh disappointed in that
area now can 10th Lord in the eigh house means you can go into a cult and
mysticism it gives you the validation but it's not giving you the permission it's validating it but you're
going to have to have other scenarios other planets that will have to show that okay yeah you can go to um the
fields of a cult and make money from it actually I've hardly ever seen
astrologers um with 10th Lord in the eighth house I actually see
more accountants and uh people in R&D with
displacement okay now let's do 10 Lord and then or yeah 10th Lord
n so 10th Lord is in the 9th house all
right so this is a placement that first of all ensures that a
person is going to go far away from where they are they're going to have to go far away
from where they are but also before that you may also have your profession and
professional workspace be strongly impacted by the father where you would have worked for the father learned
something for from the father related to work father could have been involved in you getting the job or the work but also
with 10th Lord the ninth okay
um this is naturally a teacher no matter if this person is a
plumber software engineer athlete
um lawyer you you name it this person is here to teach and at one point they will
take that Delight of teaching now this delight can happen at the age of 15 45
995 cuz for that you have to see I mean what Dasha they run and if they run through the
Dasha that will allow them to but here's the thing since you are watching this video don't wait for the
Dasha you want to improve your career start teaching something to people even
if let's say you're working and you've had 3 years or two years of experience at your work okay
great you got experience now start teaching someone about what you have learned in those 2 three
years that's almost like a thousand days that you have worked somewhere well
not thousand days I would probably say 742 days cuz you're going to take the weekends off but look at 742 days of
training you've had already so don't be shy about teaching someone and now you
have the best way of teaching because you don't need to search for students the the world is your student
and they're waiting for you on this particular device called smartphone so start
teaching because what is that going to do that is going to improve your work
that's going to improve your Fame that's going to improve your recognition and the other thing with with 10 L in the
n9th house the more pilgrimages you take the more you kind of serve the
guru having a guru in your life or a priest respecting them you know always
taking care of them asking them if they need anything what do you think it's going to
do something negative to your 10th house no is going to improve your 10th
house but see with 10th Lord going into the um you
know 9th house just being in a presence of a guru
you don't have to even serve or touch the guru's feet just in the presence of Guru you're enhancing your 10th
house um the other thing such people with 10th
floor to 9th house are Sharpshooters they know their target they know exactly
where they're shooting and sometimes they're shooting at multiple targets at the same time
like this person is a strategist no matter who they are they're strategist they're
strategically doing every single move is strategic with this person and it's only not because of this
person this person could be may not have anything to do with the 10 in the 9th
house because we're looking at the ascendant Sun Moon Atma that but when it comes to their work and profession their
work and reputation they are going to become suddenly they're going to become strategist even though they're the most
kindest soul in the world because when it comes to the need of that particular house then these
things happen Okay um usually
if 10th swords in 9th house with moon moon or Jupiter you will see this
person publish something at one point they will write and publish
something but also like I said career somehow profession gets
influenced by either father or Guru somehow some way it
happens okay so anyway guys this is our my analysis of 10th Flor through houses
remember I put on 2025 uh horoscope for all ascendants on Caris Vlogs on Maga V
theology Academy so you can check that out including my three other predictions video of this year and next year and of
course if you want any consultations books reports check out the links here carol.com otherwise we'll see you later
bye-bye
[Music] so ladies and gentlemen Welcome to our
11th Lord through houses video now one thing specifically I'm going to say here
before we get into this is that I'm not going to discuss all the things connected with
the 11th house you know why because 11th house actually can have a lot of
negative connotation the reason being 11th house is natural
badak house you know what a badak house is meaning house that becomes the
obstruction becomes the obstacle one way or the
other 11th house is also is a representation of your biggest
enemy if sixth house is like your normal enemy 11th house becomes Robin
you know if your smallest enemy if your regular enemy as a president is just you know
the crime that is happening in the cities right the 11th houseold represent
someone like Hitler musolini okay Gaddafi uh Saddam whatever historic gask
Khan whatever historic you know villains are out there they become that 11th
house and this is something that you will truly understand from when you study
NTI okay so we're not going to stick to that we're going to stick to the part of the 11th house that we also know which
is your Social Circles Network circles and the mode of
gains okay like whatever you gain in life and gain also you got to understand
doesn't necessarily mean means money or wealth gold coins you're gaining
everything at every moment in life and what is that gain some for
example somebody can gain really bad information in their life they gained it or somebody
developed a really bad skill in their life they gained a they gained access to
information that is really bad meaning the person is became and gained
knowledge of becoming the world's best pickpocketer and now they can use that
particular gain to attain things for
themselves so it's all kinds of gain that the 11,000 will represent okay but like I said with the
main part of like the 11th house okay I don't really want to look like a hero here because I really will
discuss more uh in like a private reading type setting sometimes I don't
even do that okay so we're going to focus on the desired part we're going to
focus on the gained part okay so then let's talk about 11th Lord when it's in
the 11th house and remember I have uploaded the February horoscope on Caris
Vlogs for which the link is in the description and of course my link to my
wristwatch course will also be there which is going to be very important with rahu entering Aquarius as I mentioned
cuz rahu represents wrist watches Saturn represents time rahu is in the sign of Saturn okay so that's there and of
course any consultations or any report will be in carey.com so let's get
started 11th Lord in the 11th house naturally becomes very
sustainable for gains you know it is one's ability to find
their resources and those resources pretty much have given you
access to a lot of things you don't like how you get security clearance when you work in the government to attain information that is
not attainable so 11th Lord in the 11th house says the lock is unlocked and I'm
going to give you opportunities I'm going to give you things in life now will you be
intelligent enough to take it you know where that will depend upon your fifth
house why because fifth house is your intelligence I can show you everything
let's say if I gave you the blueprint to what let's say Chad gp4 is
doing or what Sora AI will do with open AI or deep seek I gave you the blueprint
and this was 2005 I gave you the blueprint you wouldn't have a clue what
the hell do I do with this why because that particular gain
that you received requires the intelligence to use that gain okay so
11th Lord in the 11th house gives you access say here take it but do you know how to use it if you
know how to use it do it most of the time you will see depending on the fifth House of intelligence
a person knows that this is how I should be making money this is what I should be
uh gaining my resources from but I don't have that in I I don't have that
interest so the intelligence is not connected with
that okay 11th Lord in the 11th house will also give you access to Social
Circles Network circles depending upon which planet is in the 11th house you will gain Social Circles related to
that if it's Moon most your Social Circles will be very emotional very um
motherly helpful type individuals very
feminine if you have let's say Venus mostly women will be in your
Social Circles creative people will be in your Social Circles lawyers will be in your Social
Circles people who are excellent in negotiating will become your Social Circles Mercury business people
communicators artists Moon artists Moon you'll make connections
with healers Mercury you will deal with a lot
of people uh you'll make connections with many people who are actually going to be quite young very youthful in
nature you could be 50 years old your Social Circles might be uh 48 years old
but they behave like they're 20 they're always in they're always you know wanting to go this club that club doing
this doing that sun will bring powerful people very strong strict people in your
life to help you out at moments Saturn will give very cold
people old people few people G will give very few people G will bring very stubborn people
in your life very strict people with their principles in your life very
intuitive people in your life to make connections with
jupiterian you know people will give you access to a lot of banking information
will give you a lot of counseling philosophical counseling they will actually be your true guide you'll
always have some mentor to rely upon when you need the information including um children become
a resource with Jupiter rahu you'll make many people who
uh um Social Circles of different culture ethnic background yet also
Social Circles especially if moon or rahu are present together people who
might even cheat you in certain things people who will be very clever
enough what to give you and not to give you
Mars you will make strong connection with very masculine individuals
you'll make connections with people who are ready to fight for you but if you do them wrong they'll
come after you Mars will show Social Circles of very technical people people in the army
people in the police people in security cyber security those will be your access
point for you to able to gain
something but will you gain cuz I've seen a lot of people who have let's say clust planets in the 11th house they
suffer the most in terms of getting something why because they first of all 11th house is
desire which is then known as the padak obstruction why because when you create
desire now you need to have it now you've created a karma for yourself that oh my God I want to be the next best
singer I want to be the next Tor so that's your desire and if that doesn't happen you just feel like downright
loser why because because you created that badak for yourself with that
desire so th this is why um it's very important to understand
that just because a planet in the is in the 11th house doesn't mean it's great it can become a badak and especially
when it receives too many energies too many desires are there too many wishes are there and then it's not able to
comply with the individual okay
now we look at 11th Lord in the 12th house so with 11th Lord being in the
12th house first of all chose the resources that you need in your life to sustain yourself will come
through foreign lands foreign places multinational
companies 11th Lord in the 12th house will also show gain comes through travel
shipping Investments a lot of people who let's say go into
Investment Banking wealth management some people who do investment on their own trade on their own if they have the
combination this is part of that puzzle of the combination that's where your resources coming from now many people
before used to say 11th Lord in the 12th uses losses you're going to lose everything no cuz if you don't go by the
time then it could be very difficult for you to uh assess this particular uh
position if I was giving you a rating in 1850 1910
1945 maybe up to 1970 okay yeah you're going to lose money
because there's no way for you to go to some foreign place it's not that easy but now it's like easy
opportunities are there for a person not just to go to foreign lines but to move from one end of the country to the other
that's what it really was see 12 house represents fore land
but actually represents Crossing either Ocean or river when you cross a state
border that is crossing some River you're in a foreign place like India is a best best example
you go from New Delhi to even let's say Bangalore completely different language
different culture different even uh religious holidays different food different spices
is different type of entertainment or you go Chen it's even
more different carala you'll go even more different but it shows your resources
are going to be connected with such such house and especially when 11th Lord is in the 12th house do not try to become a
stingy Miser oh I got to always collect my gains whatever resources I have I have
to save them I cannot share them because then because it is in the house of
expenses so let's say it's kind of like reminds me of The Godfather
scene that Don Kon has all the judges in his back pocket and refuses to share
them which was the reason why he got his son Sunny killed right at least that's what they
blamed it on it so whenever 11ths in the 12th house
go out there and normally spend money your family needs your gains your mother
father friends need your gains sometimes you know you have to kind
of you know romanticize your Social Circles you take them out for
dinner you have to spend that money the gains needs to be spent
otherwise then what happens is some big expense comes in and those resources that you Reeve acheve goes and again it
doesn't have to be money it could actually be your Social Circles like you're just keeping them
you're not talking to them you're not saying how are you doing what's going on
come hang out then they go into that loss that
expense so if you understand that part you can Master this 11th FL in the
12th house which is much easier nowadays
now 11th Lord in the ascendant so then you have 11th Lord
sitting in the ascendant well you don't have to worry
people will find you Social Circles will find you network circles will find you
you know why because they're going to need you they're going to need something from
you it's a simple even graphical logic you're seeing the 11th
Lord go and coming to you in the ascendant which is
you your entire life your physical body the entrance of the Soul they unraveling
of all the karmas and this is where you want to be careful you cannot especially when you
assess with your intelligence that this person is genuine this person's you you
know um good person and they need my help don't refuse
it you would have notice if you're 50 years old 60 years old 40 years old and
you have this position if you refused to help somebody who needed your help as your Social
Circles including Elder sibling cuz I I forgot to mention 11th house is also the Elder sibling right so 11th floor is in
the um 12th house Elder sibling will go to for LS 11th Lords in the ascendant
Elder sibling will need you Social Circles will need you but if you say no
refuse to say no let's say if you can't help them you know they need a big chunk of money from you and you don't have it
I get it you can say listen I I can't I don't have this type of money I only
have this much I can help you with so if you want that and I can maybe try
helping you with some ideas but be there present with that help otherwise you
will see if you did that it somehow affected your health your health depends upon the
Social Circles the other big important thing you know when life is not going
anywhere you're like what is my life I'm just
stuck it's not moving there's no struggle but there's
no progress there's no fulfillment of desires well the thing is the moment you
create Social Circles in your life and you begin to keep up with
them you begin to help them life slowly
unravels ascendant is also is the house of recognition 10th house first house
second house 7th house are the houses of recognition
when you do this activity act purposefully creating
Social Circles being friendly to them helping them out it begins to help you
to find your recognition because that planet of that
11th house becomes the Anchor Point of your life now of course besides sun and
moon the planet will rule the two signs right so which one
will become important you want to see whichever one is the odd sign instead of
the even sign like cap uh Capricorn is a even sign for Saturn Aquarius is an odd
sign for Saturn so that odd sign for an Aries ascendant will become extremely
important and you want to see which planet which 11th Lord is in the
ascendant I need to be helping out and creating connection with those specific
people for sure no matter whoever else is there doesn't mean you just reject all
the other people no the whole chart is an onion layer maybe for let's say your your Libra
ascendant sun is in the ascendant but then for 2 and A2 years Saturn comes in the 11th house where you
going to ignore what Saturn will try to give you or bring you you can't for that time being so you will have you know
mult optional people around you but the planet that is in the ascendant that
needs to become that Anchor Point okay like for example 11th Lords
in the ascendant one of your Elder sibling may actually need your help related to some government matter or
some matter related to the father and you shouldn't say no even if you don't talk to them just say okay
I'll help I'll try to help you the best way I can why because you know the fruits of that what is the fruits of of
that your life awakens because remember third from any planet is the fruits of that planet so who's the fruit
here you you're the fruit so do that
activity but you want to be sensible you don't want to be helping in a wrong cause
okay that's all is it's just this simple thing of determining why should I be
helping this person you know if somebody's looking for a job that's not a bad thing if somebody wants you to do some scam
scheme okay you know that's not right okay now we'll discuss 11th Lord
in the second house so with 11th Lord going into the second house obviously
this is one of those excellent placement of Dan yogas
okay where first of
all your Social Circles become part of your family
you'll definitely treat some of them like family the people that you meet and this
is why it becomes very important for this person to actually create um Social Circles
because um let's say your moon is in K drum dou do right it it's empty from
both the sides you'll you're naturally very introvert secluded hermit-like and
you have 11th Lord in the second house then the potential of the done yoga can weaken because you will not be
interested in making so many of Social Circles but if 11 swords in the second
house moon is surrounded with Jupiter Venus Mars oh boy you need to be around people you need to make connections with
people and that's what kind of leads you to make that big
money and also 11th Lord in the second house working with elder sibling keeping
good relationship with the Elder sibling will always keep money in your bank account
I know many of times you know we have those relationship but the Elder sibling is uh a bully abusive and they're always
you know coming after you see that in the movies you see that in the shows you know I don't even know if anybody
watches movies or shows anymore but um once you get to a certain age you
should realize that this particular relation with the Elder sibling
is NE necessary for my well-being of my bank account so even if I have to be
pretentious and pretend I'll pretend 113 in the second house the
moment children are born wealth comes in some form of wealth
comes in okay and it doesn't matter if the plan
is direct or retrograde you will still see the effects of that retrograde will have a complete
other type of explanation as well but CH birth of children increase your
Social Circles increase your profits increase your gains in
life okay so that's also very important now why
would I say Children Here children are the fifth house or the ninth house no
children are the 11th house as well why your spouse doesn't have children so if children are the fifth
from the ascendant 11th house is from fifth from the 7th House of your husband or wife it is your
children and this is why you see um birth of children really brings about
some dramatic changes in people's lives especially the
firstborn the firstborn child naturally will indicate how well
your 11th Lord is second third child no that that would be
something else but the first child that is born will naturally indicate how 11th Lord is
working and I've seen cases where it wasn't working well and all I did is I helped them
align with their chart whatever that money aspect was and all that and within 2 3
months like things just start changing but see and you again it has to
be in your karma to receive certain guidance like through a cult and mysticism otherwise most people won't
even like watch this video or look at this video or won't even care about it why because they're not supposed to be
getting some kind of a help or uh some kind of a light in the
tunnel also 11th floor in the second
house always try to eat healthy good food but but when you can
afford okay when you can afford eat high quality food eat high quality food because what
that will do that will awaken your 11th house always so yeah I mean if let's say
you're you know eating Taco Bell Pizza Hut you know you're you're not able to
afford some fancy dinner okay fine you shouldn't eat that you should eat something
healthy but when you can afford and you can again I tell people
don't trust me test me whenever you can eat a very nice
meal something you're like man one day I want to go into this restaurant and
eat I used to have those and then after when I went two or three times now if you even tell me to go to the restant
I'm like no I'm good I want to have my mom cook me food you know what happens that the older you get the more you
appreciate like the simpler things in life but
um you should when you feel like okay I wish I could be at this restaurant when
you eat that with your 11th Lord in the second only not any other house you will see some churning will start to take
place and the biggest an one would be you making more Connections in your
life now let's look at 11th Lord in the fifth house
I mean sorry 11th Lord in the third house so then when you have 11th Lord in
the third house okay this shows this person eventually
regardless of their eventually becomes a very hard worker they become the most disciplined
structured person in terms of how they gain money that's the only part that I'm talking about here how they gain money
why because they have to put in the effort to sustain their Social Circles Network circles like they can't just be
like automatically I do want to call my Social Circles automatically they're
calling you because there's such a great Camery no because third house represents
those small efforts that you put that makes you into an adult one has to put in the effort to
make sure their Social Circles are sustained
relationship with the Elder sibling is sustained in order for the gains to become
active 11th Lord being in the third house obviously can also
show that either a person could be either the eldest or the
youngest within their um Family within their
siblings and also there will be much effort and this will
happen once or couple of times where one will have to put effort in improving
relationship of the Elder sibling with the youngest sibling or the Elder sibling with the younger sibling if you
have three four siblings and especially 11th floor in the third house shows you want to get
gains yes self-effort is going to be required you're always going to feel
like no matter how much big of a Social Circle you have you are putting your own effort into doing things into making
your desires come true into achieving your success Social Circles will not take you
100% they'll take you 80% 70% of the way and you have to now put in the last
ditch effort and get that result that you want this is why this is the house of self
efforts this also shows Elder sibling will be very much interested in either data communication marketing media
Performing Arts being an athlete
okay also 11th Lord in the third house will
also show rise of luck occurs for your
spouse rise of luck will occur for your spouse after the birth of
children including you will also see after birth of children
father-in-law begins to gain things in life if he may have struggled in his
life or let's say at that particular point he was struggling the moment your children were born then suddenly some
big transformation takes place in your father-in-law's life now different
planets will bring about their own um spice into the
mix so you want to pay attention to which planet is going as the 11th Lord
in the third house okay and also 11th Lord in the third house
actually it brings in big transformation in your life as well because we're forgetting something
here what is third house from another house third house is eth from the eth
bhavat BAM of the Eighth House meaning the big transformation comes
through the third house and you should want that see
people when they think of oh Earth from the earth oh my God I hope this is okay do you want a change in your life you
want that big change right for that you go to astrologers you do all the remedies you go to tantri you go to
mandin Temple well you should be looking forward to activation of eighth and
third house they're the houses that change things they change
things and usually the change comes when you want to change when you want to put in the
effort and what effort what does effort requires stamina third house is the house of
athlete so 11th House of gains goes into the third house this is why it becomes
really great for a person to have enough step stamina to get the things that they
need and do what they need to do this can also happen if your 11th Lord is conjunct the third Lord in any house
you'll always be the one to find the way to get what you need and want you'll
work rigorously towards that thing okay and now we're going to see 11
Lord in the fourth house so with the 11th Lord in the fourth house shows the
source of gains become establishment of family source of gain will become mother
source of gain will become your property your home okay
now yes I do see if the fourth Lord is retrograde oh not fourth Lord sorry 11th
Lord is retrograde in the fourth house then partially it it it it will
eliminate the gains through the mother but it does bring and gains through establishment of family what establishment of family you getting
married and you're forming your own home your family husband wife kids and the gains begin to come
in otherwise definitely mother will be a great source of the
desires great source of fulfilling those desires 11 Lord in the fourth house also
shows for this particular individual you know if life is sluggish once you get
your own uh vehicle a car it activates your 11th
house but mainly um you're going to see the moment a person moves out and
establishes their family and purchases their property which of course itself is a
desire right to purchase that property and if the chart shows the yoga for property you'll get a property and from
that point on it just establishes that gains for long term the other thing we also see Elder
sibling will get the property of the parents property of the mother some
benefits from the mother some kind of like a maximum gains through the
mother so that is one of the simplest thing that when you have 11th Lord in
the fourth house don't fight for you want this you want that if you want that
11th house to be healthy whatever the Elder sibling is deserving of and is
given to that's it it's not your right it's not you you're not entitled to
anything you didn't earn all that money all those things it's your parents's decision if they want to give you the
max or the Elder sibling the Max and the moment you then create that dispute
it'll affect the 11th and fourth house negatively peace of mind and gains
especially 11th or in the fourth house how to activate that 11th house right invite your Social Circles in your
home your Professional Network circles in your home afterm marriage always
invite your Elder sibling family into your home these little things that you don't
even give any importance to astrologically actually it's activating
everything every single thing that you do activate something when you call a friend you're activating Mercury you're
activating the third house you're activating the third Lord okay and this is why when some
people do struggles financially I'm like stop talking so
much okay Reserve yourself in terms of constantly
communicating with these specific individuals it's not just necessarily
friend it could be certain other people but everything that you do
activates something and so especially fourth house represents that peace of mind like where
you're just like ah I'm good I'm calm no desire not wanting anything not
wanting to gain anything that peace of mind always will come in when time to time your Social
Circles is coming into your home and you're feeding them taking care of them nurturing
them and especially 11th sword in the fourth house don't ever insult an invited guest in your
home okay you want to create an argument wait hold your tongue and until after
they have left then you can go and make any kind of an argument but no matter to
a certain extent if that rudeness is tolerable just tolerate it and let it be
you know sometimes you'll call people have a party one person just get a little bit too drunk and start saying
things okay okay calm down let's go let's go out and have a uh you know have
a te or coffee let's why don't you talk to me here instead of
insulting because these my small little things will disturb that 4,000 disturbs your source of gain so whatever gains
you're getting it then hinders that with 11th or in the fourth house
because you need to be at service to your 11th house in order for you to gain
why because 11th Lord is sixth from
itself that means your house of gains your a house of
desires is wanting you to be in service to that thing you cannot you don't rule
over them you cannot ask anything from them you just serve them you do your karma of serving automatically things
will happen you don't need maybe your gains that you're looking through your Social Circle doesn't come through your
Social Circle comes through completely different avenue but that activated that activity activated those
things like for example you have 11th Lord in the fourth house right and you haven't gotten any
promotions you haven't gotten any form of attention in your workplace well
invite your two three Social Circles in your home have a little party have a little gathering give them the best time
give them the best food don't tell them to bring any food or wines or or anything at home you take care of them
and be there like your taking care of Shiva coming in your
home Babaji coming in your home and then you see what happens
within a week or two of you doing that act that activity cuz you're activating that maybe if your
Elder sibling is also there invite them too all of you have have a good little
time together in the home okay now 11th sword in the fifth
house so 11th Lord is in the 11th uh I
mean in the fifth house right directly opposite to itself now this is a clear
um indication of lakmi money wealth actual like money showing up and when does it show up it shows up when
children come in the first child is born money begins to come in okay the
quantity will be seen by which other planet is influencing your 11th floor in
the fifth house but this is a clear indication that money happens wealth
comes in so maybe let's say you were making $10 an hour working at some hardware store you got married or let's
say your girlfriend got pregnant or you got pregnant as a girlfriend and then you gave birth now from $10 suddenly now
you are in a position to make $45 an hour $ an hour you're not a multi-millionaire but guess what it's
four times as much and then within few years you go from $45 to $95 an hour
because now you are um you know a head of the district managerial team whatever
you know the scenarios are in the corporate ladder it happens the other thing 11th
Lord in the fifth house enemies go against you to kill
themselves whenever enemies come to you they put the X on their own
clock because 11th because again if you read read the beginning of this video
the important message in the beginning that 11th house is the bat bam
of the sixth house of the enemy so 11th Lord is directly opposite to itself so
whenever the enemy comes after you they deserve olve themselves they make themselves completely weak they get
destroyed because they're going to the mark position from themselves when they go against you anyone who get went
against goes against you some major up and down will take place in their
life they they wouldn't be able to recover from it and this is why they you
have to be careful uh with this position when you know somebody has this position
to going after for them you might you you don't want to do that
okay the other thing 11th floor in the fifth house your children become your best friends your children become part
of your Social Circles you will love hanging out with your children and your Social Circles
you become a mother to them because they become your children because the Social Circles that
you will create will need you like a consoling mother all the time they will call you
I'm dealing with this I'm dealing with that what do I do what is everything going to be fine is everything going to be
okay so you have to your Social Circles become kind of like your friends but
pack and at the same time your children your students they're there to learn from you even if you have zero wisdom somehow
their karma will be like this person whatever they say somehow we'll give you more wisdom even the people who don't think
they have wisdom somehow some way they are going to give some advice to even
like 0 1% that that will be the most helpful advice that they will give to that individual and they will not forget
that particular advice 11th Lord in the fifth house okay you get closer to your Elder
sibling if let's say relationships are not good or if the relationship is great perfect 11 Elder sibling the Elder to
you will be in very good harmony with your children they will learn a lot from their
uh from your Elder uh sibling there'll be a great camer between them now how
can the Camery go completely Haywire is when you see the uh impact of negative
planets upon this particular placement then there will be some
Rift but if even if it's a malefic 11th Lord in the fifth house and there's no malefic Planet then the rift is not
there because guess what's happening with this position 11th SWS is looking back at its own 11th house it's the
gains will always be protected desires will always be protected meaning your 11th Lord will not let you desire things
outside of your scope of reach so this way you don't get depressed you don't
feel like your life is an obstacle because this is why 11, is an obstacle 11 house is a badak house because you're
creating these 10 15 different desires and when they don't come about oh my God my life is over my life is not worth it
everybody's getting married I'm not getting married everybody's having children I'm not having children everybody's getting promoted I'm not getting promoted everybody's moving
outside the country I'm not able to get any Visa at all why because you created that you created
that if you didn't have none of those desires 75% 80% of your problems would
not be there this is what desires the enemy
it's not even enemy to your spirituality it's just enemy to your soul enemy to
you now let's discuss 11th Lord in the sixth
house so with 11th Lord in the sixth
house the more this person is in a competitive
space okay where you have rivalry the more this
person you know deals with obstacles and enemies in life the gains comeing which means
doesn't mean that you create purposefully enemies in your life what this shows that one needs to be in a
space of absolute competition where everybody is
Cutthroat because the source of gain is becoming the sixth your enemy is going
to help you to gain and yes most of the time the Social Circles
that you create end up becoming your enemy Elder sibling
at one point becomes end up becoming your enemy there's naturally a pending karma for this individual in dealing
with their Social Circles dealing with elder sibling there's something to pay back between these
people now you can also think of the fact that gains will come through dealing
with health and diseases that's not as easy to say because you have to have
combinations to be a doctor or medical professional in order to gain that
because so we're trying to escape that particular narrow path that yeah you will make money through you know health
no that's not true for that you have to look at Saturn Venus for your career and wealth and
money and the other thing 11th Lord is in the sixth house always keep some
balance on your credit card not to go into a massive debt but
like you pay your cell phone bill electricity bills utility bills okay internet cable all your subscriptions
keep the M on a credit card and when that balance comes the due
you pay that every month this keeps your flow going the
cash flow going because again 11th Lord goes into the sixth house of debt that means the
activation of debt activates the activation of the 11th house now one of the things that is very
apparent with this most of the desire this person has ends up get getting them into
trouble oh my desire is to one day be the only one in my country to visit
North Korea I want to be that one who actually
visits North Korea and comes back and that desire leads them into trouble
there so some of the desire and and and you would know this already if you're like in your 30s 40s 50s
60s that when you try to pursue certain desires of yours ends up creating enemies obstacles in your
life okay now the such events can make you very
strong and such events can literally bring about about certain type of D
downfalls so this is one of those placement it's a karmic placement this is why it's pending Karma you're going
to make certain desired decisions to get yourself in trouble to pay off certain
karmas and this is why this this person has to be very careful as to what desires they
have now if 11th Lord is in the sixth house and you also have planets in the
seventh and e8th house usually this person ultimately leaves a life of a yogi ultimately this person will leave a
very spiritual life why because desires have gone to die why because 11th Lord is eigh from
itself desires have gone to die even you will see with the sixth
Lord being in the 11th house most of the desires this person is
not able to achieve because eighth Lord is going to the House of
desires and it's only these type of uh placement and scenarios where a
spiritual life becomes the most important part because it shows you let go of these things let go of the
desire what is this desire thing this is why I see it leads to a a very strong
spiritual path for a person to understand this Duality to Duality to
non-duality and the other thing we also see with uh
1136 Elder sibling will have some kind of a chronic health issue develop some chronic health
issue probably from the age of six or
34 okay they will so some form of health issue gets developed now it's not
happening because of your chart your chart is simply indicating that it's supposed to to happen by
time okay the other thing whenever this person gets
recognition enemies become active you get award from your
company now you find out that this and this person hates you your Social Circles become jealous or they leave
you or maybe you got achievement and you also did something wrong and so now Social Circles are
dissolving the other thing that we also see the the professional circles that
you create and the organizations that you deal with they transform
you they change you good or for better for that we have to see the
chart but they will transform your life somehow in terms of your expectancy
regarding your desires and hopes and wishes maybe certain events in your life
life leads you to just not care about trying to get your desires
fulfilled okay so now we're going to be doing 11th
Lord in the 7th house so then you
have 11th Lord okay in the seventh
house and this is again very subjective as to
um how you portray this because what happens here a person projects too many
Desires in their relationship too many Desires in their
marriage I want marriage to be like this this and this I want my spouse to be like this this and this they'll make
like this long checklist of what they want and this is where it becomes troubling because you nobody gets
exactly what you hope for and wished for on the other hand 11th Lord is in the seventh
house so that means first of all and this is normally the case the Elder
sibling needs to get married first before your marriage happens like if third Lord is in the
seventh house younger siblings should get married married first before you get married here the Elder sibling needs to
get married first and the other thing you are actually
here to fulfill the desires of the
spouse you're here to fulfill the desires of the spouse but on the other hand like I said
um this is one of those placement that a person usually can reject many many people in their life
because they're not their desired part partner they sometimes will decide i' rather be single than be with
someone the other uh other thing birth of
children bring about um lot of recognition to the
spouse lot of recognition achievements to the
partner and specifically with 11th Lord in the 7th house children
will be strongly attached and connected with the spouse unless of course there's
like malefic impacts then it won't be but they would be strongly connected with the spouse whether you're a male or
female also on the other hand and this is why also it can it
becomes a bit troubling because Social Circles will impact your
marriage Network Circle will impact your marriage in several ways one
they become part of your marriage tribe you're always hanging out with them as a
couple okay but also the other thing the type of Social Circles you bring in your
life pay attention to how their marriage is if they have extremely troubling
marriage IT projects within your own marriage because that energy of the
house goes into the seventh house Elder sibling if they have a troubling
marriage then it begins to kind of mirror that particular marriage as
well and marriage requires
effort marriage requires
effort so it's not like some easy path 7th Lord in the 11th would be different
but 11th Lord in the 7th has a similar impact but quite different quite
different okay um usually especially whenever seven
11th swords in the sth house traveling and communication becomes the import most important key of
keeping the marriage alive and going and especially the thing
is this is about fulfilling desires right you want to fulfill your desires
the more you fulfill desires of the spouse the more your own desires
fulfill it's a back and forth thing it's a business deal that's
happening now usually if let's say of course 11th Lord Saturn is in the
sth house it can bring a very beautiful long lasting marriage actually an early
marriage especially with somebody who will be strongly involved in health and yoga and meditation especially
yoga you know but of course the other Lords will have their own
significance and especially the birth of children bring natural rise in
life both for you and the SP especially the spouse but which is pretty much the same thing for you as well cuz they are
your spouse if your spouse ends up making a billion dollars guess what you enjoy that as
well okay so next we're going to be doing 11th Lord in the eighth house so
11th Lord is in the eighth house
okay and this is a position where if you
want your desires to be fulfilled if you want to
gain number one thing keep
everything related to your gains a secret keep Silence about it and you
would already noticed and you can comment this below when you talk to people about how much you have made how
much you have gained how many powerful connections you have downfall
happen or you lost some of that you lost some of your most valuable asset or
especially valuable Social Circles because this is a house of
secrecy it's not a house of hidden things it's just a house of
secrecy so keep things a secret nobody needs to know who you know how many
people you know how powerful you are nobody needs to know in a gathering of
friend friends and family and parties that you just made $3 million from your
crypto stock options is that really a thing I don't even
know or just trading crypto okay nobody needs to know that
nobody should even know that you have invested in crypto and that's the problem when you
have such type of a placement you always naturally be prone to telling things to
people people that's what
happens the other thing with 11th Lord in the eth such people will always try to gain
Success Through some mystical Source such people will always love going to
astrologers psychics um Palm
readers they always want to find a secret way to gain more actually this
can actually be a great placement for an astrologer
themselves where's your gain coming from your gain is coming from the Eighth
House matter so whether it's a cult mysticism Tantra
psychic Terror reading all of it is at the eighth house and there are thing 11th l in the
eth one definitely gains some form of money through insurance or wills and
States inheritance maybe let's say you got into some fender
bender and you ended up getting like $6,000 for fixing your car and pain and
suffering so what happened you just made money through the eth house 11th Lord in the eighth house
especially for those who are like wanting to do mbas and it and all of that um
R&D you get into the department of R&D research and
development you will make the best progress there in terms of your
profession I don't know how much they pay but um it's it's one of those places that
you will develop the most you know what's funny actually though I'm surprised
the people who went to the top and I'm talking about majority like
top people who went to like top schools in India and are in foreign countries like
us or Canada it's surprising how low they're
making do let me know why that is you went to IIT
kour IIT daily but then literally you're getting paid way less than 6 figures
that's what shocks me so I don't know I mean is this
majority or is this like minority I do want to know that you know
but um that's the 11th Lord in the e8th house and the other thing you will also
see with the 11th Lord in the eighth house this if 11th Lord is in the e8th
house along with fifth Lord in the eighth house okay and E eighth Lord sits in the
second house or fifth house this is a combination for a lottery
winner okay it's a combination of Lottery one of the
combinations okay so anyway next we're going to do 11th Lord in the ninth house
so 11th Lord in the ninth house okay so number one thing you see
tremendous luck Fortune is achieved through help of
others that you meet in your similar profession which is your Social
Circles Network circles organizations one becomes fortunate and
especially fortunate when they go far away when they move far away that's when
that's where the desires will be fulfilled but one of the biggest things you will see such person always has some
pending desire related to a pilgrimage Desiring to visit some place
some temple one of the jti lingas okay in India wanting to let's say for
example somebody's Jewish wanting to go to you know Israel somebody's Muslim
wanted to go Desiring to go Mecca one day you know and go around that the
cube so there's all the desire is going to be somehow that and including wanting
to fulfill certain wishes of the father now this is actually a remedy in a way
especially father's life try to fulfill a desire of the father because it's not the desire of your father your desire is
going to the house of the father that means father his has his own desire
fulfill those desires fulfill the desire of a mentor teacher Guru and it activates your 11th
house meaning father always had a desire to go let's say in a first class plane
ticket business class plane ticket somewhere couldn't really afford it but always wanted to be you know going to a
place like that and if you know you're making good money you can do that get your father a business class ticket for
a plane trip from some somewhere where he would like to go cuz you just fulfilling a desire of
the 9th House suddenly activates your 11,000 11th
Lord the other thing um such people will and like I said this is a very fortunate
position because one is designed to gain from their Social Circles and people
that you know one is designed to gain through their Elder siblings and
life now hopefully the condition of that 11th flid is in such a way that it allows you
to cuz no position just 100% says I'm going to do this unless it's in the good
condition versus a malefic condition which all only happens when a planet
is surrounded by a certain planet or is in a certain degree in a zodiac sign
then it can become nil okay on the other hand
um whenever you get a mentor in life teacher in life Guru in
life it tremendously helps you to activate your
gains you know you will see these people who will say I met my Guru and after
meeting my spiritual Guru my financial life changed you should all go get a guru well they shouldn't really say that
statement because not all of these placements will actually activate your money and gains meeting a
guru okay but this is one of those placement where you will
gain like 11th Lord in the 9th house n9th Lord in the second house second
Lord in the ninth house okay ninth Lord in the fifth house so in those cases is yes having a guru
blessings of a guru brings in money brings in wealth in an individual's
life and the other thing um you will see father would have found
great sustenance and support through his own siblings at one point in his life I
know it's we don't really discuss these things with our parents so much you know
cuz we don't really care of what their life was before we were born but so many
events and situations would have occurred maybe let's say when till they were 30 28 25 before they had
you but this is a placement it shows that a father's life were strongly impacted by siblings especially younger
siblings in life okay and the other thing of course
G having children giving birth to Children becomes very fortunate
Fortune comes in a person's life having
children and again I've explained this in other hous Lord but I'm pretty sure you're not even going to watch the whole
video you're going to go to this section because remember 11th houses fifth from the sth house that means it's a children
of your spouse 99.9% is going to be your children as well unless of course you
get stepchildren somebody you married with their own children the uh from previous marriage relationship yeah then it's
going to be different but most most of the time your 11th house represents your children as
well okay so now we're going to do last but
not least 11th Lord in the 10th
house so 11th Lord is in the 10th house okay so this is uh and again it's it's
onion layer right it's not a specific black and white thing so on one
end your social network circles will be strongly
um becoming an expense to your career
okay um like sometimes they either rely upon
you too much or they kind of disturb the fluidity of
your work because 11th Lord is going 12th from itself okay it has to expand itself and
this is why you also see that one needs their resources one needs their Social Circles
to help them with their career but also because 11th Lord is the 10th house they
such people are strongly Associated and connected with the corporations you work
with the actual place of work is where you create these Social
Circles outside of that it might just be government government workers social
workers okay and one of the thing is this because the 11th Lord is 12th from
itself it's kind of like saying 11th Lord is in the 12th house one is in the
12th house and right now 11th Lord is 12th from itself on the 10th house that means a gain a position of somebody to
do better in a far away foreign lands foreign Place different state different
end of the country than being in their own same place but like I said the Social Circles
feel like they're being exhausted number one like this person
needs my help or our suggest a little too much the other thing the
interruption of your work also happens at the same time work somehow has to kind of like take a
break Reserve itself so you can deal with these situations of the Social Circle so it's it's kind of like
again unraveling of these onion layers to gain or or to get the analysis of
this particular placement okay um the thing is
though you will have people like you know like I I would suggest say like on
social media now people do a lot of like patreon thing to help them sustain themselves to
help them you know keep providing the good content to people so that means the 11th Lord in the 10th shows that the
people that you have met in your work which is now especially your followers as well they're in going to the 10th
house they're providing for your career so in one end it becomes a great
placement they're kind of like donating to your profession and career cuz otherwise I mean I don't think in a
corporate like setting uh anybody's going to be donating to your corporate setting or work you know but especially
nowadays this is like a new thing well not a new thing now but literally it's been there for the past 8 9 10 years so
people who get those patreon you know donations and and
contributions it it really provides that nice placement with this particular
position including even like let's say 11th Lord in the 10th house 11th Lord in the 11th house 11th Lord in the 5ifth
house okay but also 10, is what
government bosses authorities so you will see the people that you
knew professionally and in socially end up at one point becoming your
bosses end up becoming the people in the the government who might be helping you with
something you'll make a lot of like connections that way okay so anyway guys this is my
analysis of 11 l through houses so remember uh check out the links here
ky.com and also check out magaby where I've uploaded all the February horoscope
I will upload March horoscope on time and especially that wristwatch course which will be very important from uh
pretty much may onwards of this year okay otherwise we'll see you later
bye-bye
[Music] okay so ladies and gentlemen Welcome to
our second part of the video of ascendant Lord through houses
So today we're going to be doing other Lords and the ascendant what happens
when the second Lord is in the first house third Lord is in the first house fourth Lord is in the fifth house okay
and as always if you do not know where your Lords are placed where your first Lord is placed where your second is placed along with all your logical
details for that check out the links here ky.com where you'll find my books reports consultations and link to my
Academy magav theology Academy where you'll find especially all my new
courses on especially wristwatch and smartphone and of course Mady
course so when you
have so we already did first Lord in the first house right that was in the first
video of ascendant Lord through houses So today we're going to be doing when
the uh other Lords are there so when the second Lord is in the first house
meaning family okay family wealth money
sustenance food is coming to you for its
feeding which means what family is going to need
you okay for their valuables for their food for their
money for their sustenance but on the other
hand sustenance comes to you money comes to you money is coming
to you you see the savings are relying on you
so that means responsibility comes upon you about money and
savings okay but the thing is it's not you going to it it's coming to
you so that means what happens is the your ascendant becomes the 12th from the
second house so the family has to now some situation happens where you get
most of the resources of the family upon you maybe for example
uh in the young days you were dealing with some health issues so they always had to go to doctors they always had to go and give you medicines maybe early in
age you were the child that wanted to join Sports wanted to go into the music
wanted to get this training that training so now they're giving money out to train you in these things sending you
to schools so sustenance is comes coming to you you're absorbing it you're like give
it to me but the thing is you're not going and taking it it's automatically coming to
you then when the second Lord is in the
ascendant you will always speak for yourself somebody else won't speak for
you you will speak for yourself something happens you're going to stand
up and the thing is such people when the second Lords in the ascendant they love
love they'll love to spend money on themselves cuz where is the sustenance
going it's going to you you would desire to join the gym you would desire to have
nice clothes nice accessories or whatever it is you are cuz sometimes you
will not spend money on valuable things expensive things sometimes is just to
give yourself enough to feel comfortable and this all depends on the
level so when people say oh I don't spend anything and I made this much and this much no you didn't spend it because
of of all the other bills if you a multi-billionaire you would be flying in private jet you would be flying first
class you would be going to that Michelin star restaurant people change trust
me then you have third Lord coming into the
ascendant siblings neighbors friends will always look to you for for their
guidance they will always come to you for help they need you for
courage okay they need your support to gain something for themselves so you will
have usually a lot of times you know siblings who will most of the time time to time will always ask you for
resources will ask always ask you for you know some some problem that is
happening okay you kind of become their Social
Circle their social status actually relies on you and you will see from the young age
siblings in general cuz you will see if you're young then you're going to have older siblings but either older siblings
or after enough time a younger sibling will always look out for you watch for you like where are you going why are you
going there no I don't want you to go there because remember last time you got into fight when you went there okay
you're going there I'm going to come with you cuz there's no way I'm going to have you get into another fight and injure yourself they're going to look
out for you for you communication comes
easy you don't have to make much effort to it you know why because the house of effort House of communication comes to
you you you don't have to go to it see when the ascendant Lord is somewhere I'm having to go somewhere I'm having to do
something to gain something here it's coming to you
okay um naturally when third Lord is in the ascendant you are the type of person
who knew some sport from past life whether it's a board game whether it's a video game whether it's Sports you were
just natural at it like for example you know somebody at the age of three is playing a violin age
of two playing a violin age of two they're playing the type of cricket that I mean they're just it's
like a 15-year-old playing against twoy olds why because that skill is
automatically given to you it's an automatic thing with the Lords in some some
place okay writing skills come to this individual they don't have to develop
anything fourth the Lord is in the ascendant mother's always going to look out for you you're development will be
completely focused by the mother mother will always focus on how you should dress up how you should look how your
hair is going to be but then also the ascendant Lord goes into the uh Ascend or fourth Lord goes
into the ascendant mother is here to give you things mother is here to give you sustainance give you
assets naturally such people easily get a home somehow some way even when the
The Impossible is there that there how is it that I'm going to going to afford a home somehow some way something
happens maybe you couldn't afford a home like nowadays a small shack is like a
million and5 dollars it's insane but something happens that when
you really needed that home the economy goes down to complete
crap and that $1.5 million home is now 700,000 now easily got it and then
economy goes back up again so you see things that you need need it you don't have to really work
for it it just comes to you you have the skills of dealing with
vehicles you have the skills of dealing with homes decorating the
home there is natural you know attraction of people of
the Homeland towards you you don't have to work for them when they're hard they're they're coming to
you and especially you will see after your birth mothers profession
Rose mother status whatever
rose on the other hand um one/ four Lord is in the
ascendant usually a person most of the time they will like to be lazy they like to just enjoy
life they're like ah why do I need to work hard to make all this money I'm
okay I'm happy I need to enjoy you know in in Hindi they call it
must they become must cander because fourth is
rest your entire life is about how do I find rest just I'm okay I
don't need to go and hustle and try to then get this big house and this and
that they're okay no matter what the situation is cuz happiness and naturally is in them four
is happiness so especially when they're resting that's what makes them
happy okay not when they're driving some fancy car sure fancy car comes in
they'll do it Fifth the Lord goes into the
ascendant your children will control you your children control all aspects of
you you will always identify yourself even Within
by through children oh I'm here for my children children are here for
me there's a strong bond and your
intelligence okay when fifth the Lord is in the ascendant I mean such a person is
naturally intelligent towards the planet that is sitting in the ascendant so once we
do planets in the ascendant whether it's other Lords or the ascendant itself you will
know and the thing is naturally you you know why people who look for
Sidis people who look for some special mantras this person naturally gets it
maybe they went on some um you know K Kadar Nat they went to you know
rishikesh and they're just walking around some Baba calls them and say listen here say this Mantra I know
you're going to through trouble the Mantra is a knowledge coming to you
automatically naturally this person is is a natural straight stage
performer for example they could be a gardener they could be a plumber but if
they ever got a chance to let's say just even a small community center they have to perform oh naturally without just on
the go like a oncore presentation they can just
give why because those talents of past life are coming to you and they're
coming to you for a reason cuz at one point you'll be using them okay and of course children are
going to need you even when you're they're 30 40 they
will look for you for their guidance they will look for you for
suggestions and it's a great thing sometimes it could be a more of a negative thing that hey you got to be
become more independent you know um usually in our Indian culture we see lot of dependency on parents for everything
approval for this and that I don't want my kids to be that at all I'm like after 18
19 if you want guys want to live separate perfect you live your life you make your
decision you screw up learn sixth Lord is in the ascendant
well no worries about looking and hunting for uh enemies and competition they're
coming to you health health issues coming to you but
why right this is one of those placement that people are asking why is because
you invited it from past life all those people who come to you for enemy be being an enemy being some
form of a rival even a disease it's all something that you inflicted in
the past okay and this is why when sixth Lord is in the ascendant I always see
even the ascendant Lord in the sixth will do the same but sixth Lord in the ascendant most definitely a person has
to go in things connected with either law criminal justice uh competition like for example a police
officer athlete or a Healer you know why when
sixth Lord in the ascendant you will see you will get some of the most's brashest
patience the rudest patience sometimes they'll they'll even write
negative things about you and you should be happy you should
be like great I healed this person they're still not happy with me thank you why because the enem is coming to
you for their healing enemies coming to you to win their case and even if you won that case they will still be upset
because you didn't win it all the way or you didn't do exactly what they wanted you will get that a lot you'll be
criticized a lot even by the people who you have given the perfect service to so
don't be like why is it that the world is against me no each time you deal with
that situation the lighter and lighter and lighter you will
feel when that last person comes to give you that trouble and leaves you're going
to be like why do I suddenly feel so good first when you're growing it feels like
a pain you know it's like when you are eating a
cheeseburger right it's something like oh it's junk food it tastes good but then the child is looking at you and
you're feeding the child baby food blind food and they're like no I want that burger but the thing is they can't have
that burger they cannot digest it maybe don't even have the teeth to eat
it okay and they think it's you're being bad to them but it's only for their own
good that you're not giving them that same thing is happening here you early in life thinks like why is it that these
enemies are coming these people are hitting me as coming but once that maturity sets in you'll be like I I just love it it's
like when when the enemy doesn't come you feel like life is just boring what's going on
I need some you know some ET Terminus in my
life the other thing then seventh Lord goes into the ascendant your entire self is going to
be dependent upon the spouse spouse is going to look for you for their guidance spouse is going to
look for you for their advice of life but you know what ends up happening
spouse controls every aspect of your life they want to get suggestion they want to get your
help but also they because of whatever reason they take over your life how you
going to dress how your hair is going to be what you're going to do today what are you going to eat today what type of
work should you do now maybe you should have a different career and you'll take that advice from the spouse there's this
aspect of control that happens like this is the person because seven Lords in the ascendant they will
always mold themselves for their client for example this person has a
very strong principles oh I will not do this you know if a clients ask me I'm not
doing that but when the client comes and says can you do this for me it's like all right yeah I will do
it they will mold themselves to get that thing done to get that deal done so you
can see obviously um great politicians are seeing when seven Lords in the ascendant
you are not made for yourself you're made for the world you're here to give yourself everything to the world the
world is coming to you to get things whatever information whatever thing that you have
the world wants it the world wants it and depending upon the planet you might
even just give it for free cuz remember it's like everything every 7th
houses whoever you meet outside your home inside your home whoever and all they want is you you
become this Beacon for the world seventh Lord is in the
ascendant okay natally business sense comes to you you don't need to do
anything you don't need to go through failures you know exactly what needs to be done how business is done from the
age of 13 12 11 nowadays it's like literally 7 or 8 I mean my girls are
like 9 and 10 oh they want to make business deals and of course I know why they're they
want to open up their businesses they want to open up their toy stores that's great so it's like they a
person naturally gets that business sense oh how can I sell this and give you this oh you want to trade this with
me but how about this I'll give you this and you give me that one negotiation skills are there even
though this person might be in a job they just know how to negotiate
then a the Lord is in the ascendant whether you want it or not
change is going to come to you transformation is going to come to you now I'm not talking about some small
change like today I'm wearing a teal shirt tomorrow I'm going to wear a yellow shirt I'm talking about change
that changes you you did not want to do you you have
no care for the occult you have no care for the hidden tantric knowledge but
guess what they just came into your lap you went to some party you met some
person who were secretly a tantric secretly this you started speaking to them you guys became great friends then
they gave you some Mantra Sidi say Hey you you're going through this problem right I know you don't believe in this just try it just do it and then you
realize later wow imagine if I never met this person
imagine if I never learned this thing imagine this and that but you don't have to because it came to
you the knowledge came to you you did didn't have to pursue
it that's what happens also the eth house is
inheritance right wills and States so if eighth Lord is in the
ascendant no matter what you will get some form of inheritance from something somewhere
somehow and it doesn't mean it can be a lot it can be something small maybe your ant passed away but put your name there
that give this particular thing I know my nephew always loved my silver and
gold coin collections nobody else liked it he always used to look at it give this to
him that's it so something hidden comes to your
way something buried comes to your
way and then of course on the other hand you know things that are not even
desirable comes to you but then also the solution will come to
you the feet of the gurus are coming to you so no matter what the dramaticness is the blessings of the guru will be
there for you to just chest the feet no matter what why because Eighth House is 12 from the 9th house 9th house is the
guru 8ighth house is the feet of the guru feet of the guru is in the what do we do when we go to a guru we touch
their feet for blessings so that means the blessing is already with you so even if the major up and down comes in you're
able to get out of it considering that okay if something
dramatic H you know like anything happens anytime you can go anytime somebody can die at 90 somebody can die
at 20 so that's the other thing that though
that's something else that you have to see what the thing is so if if you're going to go you're going to go so you
can't say oh well blessings of the guru weren't there no it's about when you if if if your time is
here for a long time that's say You're supposed to live till 98 eth Lords in the ascendant in that
case you will go through many circumstances where dramatic things happen but the blessing is
there okay then ninth the Lord is in the ascendant
of course your entire development will happen through the father your personalities is that will be that of the fathers major likes and dislikes
will be that of the father father will also look for himself within you this is
why you will see when ninth Lord is in the ascendant father will be like I know I really want you to do this I want you to become an is Officer I want you to
become a uh you know dentist or an engineer why because they're looking for
themselves and you their desires becomes you I couldn't do
this my daughter will do this I couldn't do this my son will do this is that
right or wrong depends I say it's it's wrong because you have your own life you have
your own desires you're not here to fulfill somebody else's wish they were
their job was to Simply bring you through for you to fulfill your karma now this doesn't mean that you
completely disregard or disrespect but if you know you don't want to do something well father has to learn
maturity of being disappointed sorry this is why I don't care what my
kids does I'm not like caring about oh my God you must become an engineer and a doctor and a software programmer so you
can survive in the AI world if God wants you to do well you'll
do well okay but also the ninth Lord is in the
ascendant just like how I desperately looked for a guru
right the moment I read autobiography of a yogi I'm like I need a guru I need a guru or not even a guru just Kaa before
it was Guru do you know now I'm at that point with doing my Korea and doing my
spiritual practice before my mission was oh my God I want to meet mahavar Babaji
and I want to have a guru like Shri yukteswar now I'm at the moment I don't even if I don't care care to see any
babaii I don't care to see any seek any Guru or anything I want to bypass all
that and just go to the Divine you become and that's the maturity that happens I get a lot of
people in the email who ask me do I have combinations to meet Baba and I'm just laughing I'm like they're probably at
that early stage of that spiritual intoxication once the intoxication settles in then you realize why why is
it that the goal has to be with baba baba doesn't want you the B bab doesn't
want you to meet him doesn't care for you to meet him he doesn't want you to be he doesn't want himself to be the
goal for you he wants you to bypass it so for me if I if I find you see it fine
great it's a blessing in the world but if I don't I'm not going to be all upset
crying doesn't matter for me I got the path to God that's
it then um ninth Lord Of Love is in the
ascendant and guru's in the ascendant so even if you don't want a guru somehow you end up meeting a guru meeting a
teacher meeting a priest getting a mentor because it's naturally coming to you and you will know you will feel it's
like people who don't care for something they usually get that okay so when whenever the time
comes the guru just comes walking to you luck naturally comes to you this is
why these own placements are so well sought after Fortune 9th house is the
fortune right so Fortune Divinity Guru all this Essence is within
you 10th Lord goes into the ascendant well you will bring your work home your
work is always attached to you whether you're in bed whether you're eating whether you're home whether are you're brushing your teeth whether are you're
going to the office what are you driving always work is going to be on your mind Society is going to be on your mind
power status is going to be on your mind this is why this is one of those placement where you're very you are
married to your work you know it's like they say the attachment this person has an attachment
they have a you know a negative attachment in around them yeah this is
the attachment you have responsibility of the world and Society
upon your shoulder okay so don't think of it as a really negative
thing it can be if a person has a family and they get burned out and they're not
paying attention to the wife the kids or the wife is not paying attention to the husband and the kids yeah things are
going to happen but um this is also where a person's
constantly thinking and worried about the world worried about their work even if it's not their work they will want to
take the responsibility of their work oh my God we're not getting this contract even though your department is fine you
guys have enough work oh no we we didn't get that big you know uh
contract and that subcontract and no my God this oh my God that is just
sometimes unnecessary worries of the world 10th house is recognition 10th Lords in the ascendant a person without
even wanting to be recognized gets recognized for example you um make
something that you never intended to be viral but it goes viral why because it
say one of those silly stupid memes that people just use and now suddenly you became viral you know like that guy
who's looking behind and other girls behind while he has with a girlfriend right it's a meme that was actually a
stock photo for something but it just became the most famous meme of all time
right so that it happens even if you don't want it it's going to come to
you okay Power you don't want it like for example if K is in the 10th 10th is
in the ascendant you're not going to want Power you're not going to desire power you'll be like Maximus desus
orelus from the gladiator who doesn't care to be in
power but they insist that you know you need no you need to be in the leadership position you are the
leader so the this is what happens then
um all the information of the family
all the information of the family the history of the family the responsibility of especially paternal lineage comes
upon you at one shoulder at one point okay one of your shoulder becomes heavy because of that
responsibility um 11th Lord is in the ascendant well no you cannot never be
alone Social Circles will come to you people you don't know want to know
you gains come to you you you don't even have any wishes but
sudden suddenly somebody else's wish gets fulfilled for you by
you but also the thing is this is a person that sometimes deal with some of
the biggest enemies in life they will deal with the biggest
hurdles in life and come out of it when they want to fight they don't want
to fight a small person if they're David they want to fight
Goliath they don't want to know they easily make friends with everybody their their phones might have 100 people in
there but they don't care to be with those people they only want to be with those select few who are the biggest
resource for this person so if out of the 100 people if four are worth over1 $300 million one is
worth a billion dollars that's it they want that biggest fish in the
sea why is that because the 11th house is sixth from the
sixth so when you get the enemy you get the big enemy 6 to the power of
six when you deal with competition you deal with the big competition but also the thing is
desire the house of Desires in the ascendant right so what
happens too many desires too many things you want to
accomplish too many things you want to fulfill and when that happens this is
one of those placement where a person gets the biggest disappointment in
life cuz let's say for example my goal is I have to be worth $1.6 billion by
the time I'm 44 and I'm not so even if you're worth $40
million which is really good compared to 99% of the
world for you you will feel like life is not worth it anymore I don't want to
live because I can't have my private jet I can't have this I can't have this and because it's filled with two too much
air 11, air is filled with too much air too much of things that are unnecessary
to make you happy and that's what
happens then you have 12th Lord in the
ascendant so here naturally for an opportunities come to
you no matter how much you want to save some expense comes to you which is why
one should always invest their money one should always spend their money one should always donate their
money why because organizations will come to you for donations you will see 12th Lord in the ascendant you will have
more knockings than other people at their door because of some organizations some donations some Christmas donations
dwali donations but also at the same time the knowledge of ether
knowledge of ether will come to you Heavenly knowledge will come to you like
for you you're a regular person but somehow you dream of things of other worlds of other dimensions and you're
like what is this how do I get rid of this actually if of course other planetary
alignments are making you get rid of it you'll be like I don't want this but it's coming to
you spiritual Focus MO Focus comes to you at
one point like without you even Desiring suddenly something just comes in in your lap and now you embrace it sometimes you
may not embrace it sometimes because 12th house is Solitude
isolation being a Hermit it comes to you maybe you are forced to work in some mountainy region
because you're a geologist or you're someone who's dealing with civil engineering and now you have to be living in complete isolation on top of a
mountain maybe two or three people around you and you're like I want to be in that main city I want to be going out
meeting people this and that so yeah you may not want it but it's coming to you for someone
else you know it might be the greatest thing in life like
me but for you it might be actually becoming a stressful burden but you don't have to go to it it
comes to you Investments opport unities come to
you okay and if you don't want to go to foreign lands foreign opportunity will come to you and you'll have to even if
let's say you want to be in India but let's say you're working for Reliance Reliance is like listen we're
going to open up an office in Dubai and we want this team and we want
you to go there and open this up and you'll be there for the next 3 years like I love my life here but hey you
want to keep that job you got to go to to Dubai so you go to Dubai
okay so anyway guys this is my analysis of other Lords in the ascendant and our third part of this video will be planets
in the ascendant that'll be interesting till then if you're new to my channel subscribe below so you don't miss these
type of great videos and if you want to know anything about your own chart consultations reports or to learn all
the techniques of astrology go to the link haares astrology.com otherwi we'll see you later bye-bye
[Music]
let's see I look good I look good all right so ladies and gentlemen today we're going to be doing uh dwell Flo
through houses okay and it's actually a very interesting 12 floor through houses
trust me it's not what you think cuz everybody think what 12 is what oh
losses but the thing is there's more to the 12th house than just losses because
12th house is not really loss it is
expenditure it's where your expense goes okay
so expense is yes the loss of your money
because it's going into expense but it's an expense 12th house is also of course
foreign settlements foreign overseas Journeys 12,000 actually also
represents Investments because what is investment investment is an expense you make in
your life hoping to get more money back at the end so this is why 12 us is also expense
because it's an investment okay and there's a connection
to 12th Lord in some other house cuz it shows where the investment opportunity
can be so it's not all about losses okay it's the expense so 12,000
then Investments donations cuz donation is what you're
just giving something in charity okay you don't it's not going to come back to you you don't care you just
did something great for the community for the world okay for the
environment and that's it and then then the other thing is just pretty much
expense which is what anything like for example you go buy this iPad here okay
that's an expense you go buy your fancy clothes and fancy cars or anything you're you're
you know getting your grocery it's all expens that's the 12th house 12th
house okay also represents
Moka what the Moka it's the release is the highest of the highest of
Happiness that's what 12th house is the Moka is not like about you just being in
a state of nothing MOA is that as they say that that
that million times the excitement that you would get compared
to like buying a Rolls-Royce so imagine if you bought a Rolls-Royce oh my God
I'm in that Elite level that I have a Rolls-Royce but now imagine that times
million for which you don't need to work hard you don't need to like earn money or anything it's just there if you know
how to get it okay and 12 house also represent the
pleasure that you get within your marriage cuz it's the bondage of the
marriage the 12th house which is the pending Karma it is the pending Karma of
the marriage it is the debt you owe in the
marriage and usually debt meaning owing something in
the marriage led to pleasure like it's my pleasure to serve my wife
it's my pleasure to serve my husband it's pleasure that's the pleasure it
actually is okay so that is the 12th
house 12th house would also represent what is the profession of your
siblings is the immunity of your in-laws is the property of your
father it represents the transformation of your children it represents your maternal
ants or Uncle spouse it's your um maternal grandfather
and paternal grandfather actually paternal grandmother and maternal
grandfather so it represents a lot of things it's not just one
thing so we wanted I wanted to explain this so now let's talk about when 12th Lord is
in the 12th house and also remember my number one course for creating wealth
and especially creating a peaceful lifestyle with the wristwatch course is
now pretty much the number one course on makave astrology Academy along with of
course my nandar course which is not the second best cuz wash took over so you
can check out those links at Caris channel.the effect.com or you can go to Caris astrology.com where
you'll find my books reports consultations okay and all the other links there as well so let's get back to
our 12 or through houses now let's say for example you know if 12th Lord in the
12th house can also become you like your ascendant Lord all right as you may have seen in the one of the very first video
in this series is that a person see whatever planet is in the 12th
that person is like feels lost in their own world ascendant Lord is there the
individual meaning you first of all will always have the biggest
expenses spending money and or even if you don't want to spend money expenses will always come
in especially related to the significance of that particular Planet okay and 12th Lord
going into the 12th house kind of ensures and gives you an
idea of the type of donations Investments that an individual will
do okay so like for example son goes into the
12th you will see father is in his own
world you know father feels like he's far away from your life
father would deal with a lot of expenses or maybe have the desire to just always
spend money and one will let's say for example
sun in the 12th would make investments in Gold would invest make uh buy stocks
connected with like solar technology or anything connected with
like government mutual funds funds bonds right so this is how whichever
each planet is Will indicate where is this stream of that
expense the donation like for example sun in the 12th you'll always s give some money somewhere to government cause
somehow the corporation or that nonprofit organization or whatever that
organization is somehow connected with the government um
sun in the 12th though does disturb sleep okay it'll disturb sleep of the
individual and yes in the bedroom too brings about lot of arguments in the
bedroom because it's the the king and the queen are together in the bedroom
right so on one end the king is like hey I'm the king and the queen is like no you're not the king right now I'm the
leader of this particular bedroom and what you're going to be
talking about what will get you into fights with your spouse will be the sign that it's
placed in and where that dispositor sign is placed okay so for example Saturn is in
Aquarius I'm sorry not Saturn Sun is in Aquarius Saturn is sitting in the Eighth
House right so here you will see arguments
will happen due to politics due to health and also
in-laws these will be the causes of the arguments within the
bedroom moon moon goes on the
12th and the thing is I've already made videos on this so I don't want to like go each video but I want to Simply focus
on the Lord being in the 12th so whatever planet is Moon Mars Mercury
Venus Jupiter rahu ketu okay but they're not going to be Lords so we we don't need to include
that but that particular Planet whatever that signifies if you know the basics of
astrology is that that particular family member that are represented by that planet will deal with these 12th house
things like 12th house Mars would be the brother Moon would be the
mother mother would spend money mother will have to go to far away
Places Travel to places mother is
um going to be somebody who's going to be very you know outside of the family
Dynamics and family circles mother will always be caught in one
thing going around in circles in one thing about
something you know always talking about the same thing throughout her
life same thing will happen with the brother sister wife everything you know but 12th Lord in the
12th does represent that whenever you do things related to
the 12th house it gives that protection it gives that protection but
yeah protection can be taken away if there's other planets that are involved in that particular
placement but now let's look at what happens when 12th Lord goes into the ascendant if the 12 sword is in the
ascendant first of all it's not that this person wants to spend money and wants to create expenses expenses come
to this person they can get away from it they have to deal with
expenses foreign opportunities come to this individual but this individual can
feel bit lost in life and not lost in life
altogether but especially sometimes the intelligence feels a bit
lost intelligence feels like anytime 12th Lord is in the ascendant or even
aspects the ascendant you you know there's it's better for the such type of people to
work in a very closed environment um kind of like
laboratory research because such a person feel like they're not meant for
dealing with the world and dealing with the people around them you will see such a
person opportunities come to this individual for Investments it's not like
they have to go seek in investment opportunities no these opportunities are coming to them you will also see 124 in
the ascendant like a person who wants donation will walk up to you will knock
on your door will knock on your workspace will come up to you when you're walking on the
street and of course um because of the 12th Lord in the
ascendant okay the even if such a person doesn't want sometimes to deal with
intimacy to deal with the pleasures of the bed they come to you they're going to demand that they
they seek your attention Okay so that's what happens
when your 12th Lord goes into the ascendant it's the the
expenses okay come to you and in what way these expenses will
come depends upon which Lord which 12th lord sign sign Lord goes into the
ascendant like Mercury is a 12th Lord in the ascendant well money is going to go into the education money is going to be
uh be spent on business on books on learning some skill always way
throughout life will be that or a person may um uh get opportunity to invest money in stocks because it's Mercury
friends will always ask for you for expense you'll feel obligated to spend
money on friends cuz Mercury is friends right so this is how you this is
why it's important to understand the significance of the planets then you have 12th Lord going
into the second house with 12th in the second house shows post marriage most definitely will move if you don't move
before that most definitely after marriage you will move to a new city
state or even moving to a country and especially opportunities to
make money from a foreign Place foreign lands will come your bank account increases
through Investments so here's an important thing 12th Lord in the second because remember
it is this house that is coming to the second house it's not like second Lo second house is going to the 12th house
which means if you do not donate money on regular
basis if you don't invest money on a regular basis I don't care how much you're making can make 10 bucks an hour
see this is not the 1990s even early 2000s where you have to have a minimum of certain amount to
actually invest in the market and it's not a complicated process to call some brokage
uh company and be embarrassed like I just want to invest uh 50
bucks right we couldn't do that I couldn't do that back in my
days now you have things like Robin Hood app you can have you can buy fraction of
his stock but what it happen shows is that money needs to be revolving somewhere in
the 12th house so when you donate money when you invest money and and if you're not
stingy meaning you're not a miser you're not stingy you're not cheap you're not all this trying to hoard you are
spending money on the things that need to be provided for your bank account
grows but if these things are not happening then you have nobody else to blame because hey my bank account is
low cuz if you say well a lot of times I'll get this I don't have money to invest I only
have like $2,000 in my bank account okay out of that $2,000 even
$150 can be put in that you can just forget about that it's in Investments you can
make a $5 donation from that $2,000 bank account it has to see this on a regular
basis otherwise then you're stuck with only 2,000 in the bank account cuz when you had a job you weren't doing and
following these particular rules the pleasures of the bed come
through when you spend money on that partner on that spouse when you ask because they will ask you for
something and if that 12th house has to ask you instead of you automatically doing
for the 12th house now it becomes an expense for you okay now it becomes an expense for
you and the other thing um even with 12th sword in the
second naturally many people within your family okay will be going to foreign or
far away places from where you guys were born okay and sometimes depending upon
the Lords like uh son
especially okay Sun sometimes moon but like sun will
show like your lineage moved from one particular place to a completely different place they moved from
Pennsylvania to California they moved from oresa to New Delhi so they the whole lineage had to
shift or the pitri as we call it had to
shift okay then the other thing you will also
see one will have to spend money either for their eyeglasses
or they'll have to or or such a person will if they don't if they're not doing
the things related to 12 house you'll have to spend a lot of money on food at one point time to time you'll always
have to break give a big chunk of money in some Bill related to
food or bills related to dentist dentist and food becomes uh the
thing and including family asking for money and this is why these three dynamics of the 12 house that I
explained has to be 10 I don't care what age you're at if you're in a working age you better start doing small stuff in
the 12th house now 12th Lord goes into the third
house so when 12th Lord goes into the third house it shows that if a
person doesn't donate on regular basis doesn't invest money longterm on a
regular basis or is becoming stingy cheap
Miser then one gets expenses connected with siblings travels neighbors friends
fences cuz third house which is neighbor what separates you and your neighbor it's the
fence so you'll have to deal with those particular expenses in your life
you'll spend money on siblings sometimes necessarily sometimes unnecessarily and that unnecessary
expense only becomes active when you're not taking care of the 12th house okay and this is something that I
explained at the beginning of the video that in order for you to uh not deal with the negative side of
expenses yes everybody loves spending money somewhere right like I I would I
love spending money on my kids I love spending money on my
dogs I love spending money on cameras
but um it shows that if you're not doing things connected with the 12th
house then the expense will become active related to that third
house also it shows opportunities coming for your younger siblings to go to far away places foreign places in
life 12th Lord in the third house will also show when you
travel okay and it's not like every time you travel but one at one point when you
travel The Sibling will have to visit a doctor's office cuz 12, is doctor's
office okay or when you usually go to a
doctor you'll go to the doctor related to your hands and shoulder pain but here's the thing um sometimes
when you go to a doctor that Omen is either positive or negative for
example you made an investment or you're regularly
investing and you're donating money and right after you donate money or or spend
money or made an investment you have to go to a doctor for some pain well that becomes a positive side
of it like okay my arm is hurting I got to go to the doctor so it's
saying that while you doing what you're doing okay I'm giving you an omen that
your 12th house is now active and it but that particular visit
to the doctor won't be as severe as when you don't do anything to R to the 12th
house then you have to go to the doctor then expenses comes in big expense comes
in especially if let's say you have Venus and rahu sitting in the 12th house and your 12th Lord is in the third house
you'll pay a big nice luxury Bill related to your doctor
visit okay but because 12th house represents anything connected with the hospitals and doctors and Clinics you
you will see either that expense comes in related to your uh issues of hands
and shoulders even part of the upper lung or you'll be paying medical expense
connected with siblings okay at at the same
time with your 12th floor in the third house usually will so whenever you move to some new place one of the neighbors
move out less than probably 6 months they will move out from that place
then you have 12th Lord sitting in the
fourth house so with 12th Lord in the fourth
okay the things related to the 12th house always tend to become active when you're not taking
the regular maint when are when you're not doing regular maintenance of the 12th
house so what is what do you what is a regular maintenance regularly with 12th house
you should always donate money you should always uh invest money
long term and spend money into where into the
place where the 12th floor is placed because what happens is let's
you're not doing these things like spouse is asking for a new
couch new table you know new uh they want to get
some kind of like a uh new curtains and you're like no no no no no we got to I can't spend money we got
to save money we got to do this we got to do that what happens is when you
don't just open up your wallet and get something to beautify the fourth house
what happens is now expense comes related to the fourth house
Which is far bigger than what you would have spent originally so that one couch that the
spouse wanted if you would have gotten that couch you wouldn't deal with that
big huge Plumbing expense that you now have to pay for fourth house is also
Vehicles so when you're not doing something connected with the fourth
house the vehicle has to be in a shop because now that expense is coming there
it's saying I I'm coming here I can't stop myself but if you know it's coming here
you know it's it's kind of like the remedy of uh accidents when you find out
you're going to get into some major accident you go and do a uh cholesterol check done where they take blood out of
your forearm that means that you bled especially with a sharp pain
you know so when you do a cholesterol check it calms that particular part down so now a person is not going to deal
with that same thing when you're not regularly doing things around the house getting things around the house because
you just want to safe safe safe safe safe well now guess what now that plumbing issue is going to cost you
$2,000 to fix where you could have gotten that $400 or $500 couch in the
home and actually 12th House shows 12th sword going into the for that a person
will get an opportunity mother definitely gets an opportunity to not only visit foreign lands but to move to
foreign lands but you yourself get that whether you take it or don't take
it depends upon where the 12th Lord is where rahu ketu is where moon is which will
determine if you have that yoga for a foreign plays foreign settlements but these opportunities come into
play you will also see um 12th Lord in the fourth house is that
whenever you travel to some foreign lands to some foreign Place natural improvements in
the home happens natural improvements in your mother's life happen usually you will see with 12th
Lord in the fourth house a person goes and takes a trip goes to a foreign Place comes back and suddenly wants to now get
a new car or gets an opportunity to buy a new car or suddenly after they come
back from a trip they make a decision to buy a particular home why because now by
doing the activity of the 12th house especially which is a foreign Journey you're now activating the fourth house
as well so activity of the 12th house activated the fourth
house and especially because 12th house is Moka fourth house is natur the Moka
triangle both represents rest and sleep
and so this becomes a one of those placement that a person usually will
love to sleep long durations because the pleasure is going
on the pleasure unless you got bunch of malefic sitting in the 12 house and they will
disturb your sleep you'll barely you'll wake up always from immature
sleep but without any planets in the 12th house with 12th Lord in the fourth house the Sleep becomes absolutely peace
useful but you and especially if a benefic is there is definitely going to help you know cuz mifix will always
hinder that partic those particular um you know results of the alignment that
we're talking about or any alignment that we're looking at okay so now we're going to look at
12th Lord in the fifth house now 12th Lord goes into the fifth house so
obviously a person is going to have children in foreign
lands a person is going to spend all of his money on children spend money on
Creative Pursuits spend money on learning things and educating
themselves you know um and yes the thing we also
see wherever you are okay so let's say you're from your Homeland you went to a
foreign place and you have children even and especially the birth
of children can suddenly make you move to a different place you will also see you are going to
put investments in the name of children you're going and this is not
like something you may do right away maybe let's say when your children are 12 13 14 15 you're going to start
building their P Investment Portfolio and then 12th house also shows
that one will suddenly start Desiring to take foreign Journeys or wanting to
travel far away after the birth of children one will feel
exhausted in their education educational Pursuit now
this part can be a little bit tricky because on one hand we also see that
education would take place in a far away place from home whether it's foreign lands or a different state but depending
upon the planet that is sitting in this uh fifth house it can show that yeah a person can
pursue with certain planets any education they want but with certain planets if a
person is not pursuing an education that they are interested
in they just cannot do well in education fifth house is
intelligence intelligence is always going to be impacted by your past life events by
your past life experiences because 12th house is
pasted okay 12th house becomes past and especially the intelligence
the so you will see this if a person in their own home country and their own
home place has a average IQ or let's say have a very low IQ when they go to a far away foreign
place what are they doing they're aligning themselves that means their IQ Rises to a certain level their
intelligence Rises to a certain level they're able to kind of comprehend
life also
um this is also one of those placement
where especially children for quite a while will spend time in the
bedroom meaning after the children are born they will be with you in the
bedroom they will be between you and your spouse and usually then also what
happens if spouses aren't there then pets could
be between you and your spouse till a certain point the other thing and this is
something that I've said with this particular series is that always spend money on
your children go take them out for dinner go buy them things clothes toys you know
things that they need for their school spend money on them because
otherwise what happens is if you don't spend money on them and you're like no no no no I don't need to spend money on
them I'd rather save that money I'd rather invest that money or do this or do that with that money then what happens is unexpected expenses come in
related to children that if you could have just managed to be a little bit
open about spending money on them you wouldn't deal with this sudden chunk of expense that you don't even like
spending so you must you must spend money on children and you know what
who's this will be the hardest for it'll be the hardest for um Pisces
ascendant okay Pisces ascendant and actually
Capricorn ascendant no no no no not Capricorn ascendant uh Pisces ascendant and Aries
ascendant so these two ascendant will have the hardest time if the 12th Lord sits in
the fifth because then they get a commanding nature they will make some form of
logical reasoning behind why they're not doing certain things no I don't need to spend that I need to do this actually
Aries would be much less you know Aries would be much less
unless of course Saturn sits in the fifth fo Jupiter
but you're going to have to and especially because 12 thrs in the fifth house your intelligence works on
an abstract level you cannot like read about how to
run a business how to do business you intuitively just know you're like you
know what this probably works like this it probably works on this thing you'll come across things that
you'll be like okay let me just look into this it's not something something you're starting wanting to study and
even if you're studying your knowledge actually comes from very unusual
sources about what you're trying to learn so let's say you're learning Jes
with 12th one in the fifth house you can read and get whatever you
want through that course but your knowledge of that particular thing you were learning actually came from some
site thing or maybe something so minute that you wouldn't have even realize that
wow I learned more here than here okay so now we're going to do 12th
Lord in the sixth house 12th Lord goes into the sixth house one thing you would have noticed right after your
birth one of younger siblings of the mother would have gotten
married your birth indicates that your birth will also
indicate maternal aunts and uncles would have found foreign opportunities in
their life they could have moved far away moved to a foreign lands
also this person sleep gets
Disturbed now why the Sleep gets Disturbed it gets Disturbed due to the
disputes and fights that always occur in the bedroom okay and especially due to
oversleeping two things can happen here depending on
axis of planets like rahu Jupiter if axis of sleep happens creates health issue or lack of sleep happens create
health issue for example 12th Lord is somehow connected with
kuu lack of sleep 12th Lord is connected with rahu
oversleep both are always going to create issues cuz there's always has to be a
balance some people like to sleep 12 hours some people barely can sleep 3 hours both are you know uh going on the
other direction instead of saying staying in the middle and the other thing I also see
this is a great placement on one end where the enemies will always find losses in their
life enemies finds losses but also due to enemies competition rivalries you
lose sleep the other thing because remember what I said with
the 12th house always invest money donate money
and spend money because when a person doesn't do this with the 12th
house then the person deals with health
issues when you're not investing for long term when you're not donating right
regularly then the thing is and and not saying saying all of them have to happen
but one of them has to take place because then when they don't debts become active your Investments become
your debt and also what happens with 12th FL in the sixth the loans that you
take okay do not go to the places that you took the loan for or debt for they go somewhere
else you took a loan for business instead of you ended up getting a car and now you need more money for the
business whether it's intentional whether it's by mistake but there could be a diversion with 12th Flor in the
6th why because 6,000 is debt 6ou and debt cannot be bad all the time debt can
be good but the planet of expense and loss comes in there so if the expanse doesn't
happen then it has to give the other side of that 12th house
where a person who took that loan who took that debt Miss can misuse it because again
12,000 is that abstract world where you don't know what's going on it takes you into that hallucina
world and yes big um big expense can come on maternal ants and uncles as
well David and it's not like because of your chart is coming your chart indicates your chart indicates big big
expenses okay then we look at 12th Lord is in the
7th house so 12th Lord goes into the 7th house it shows that one's energy has to
be spent on the marriage and especially with 12th
house the more you actually spend money on the marriage the more money you spend on the spouse
the more smoother your marriage will go but the moment you feel I don't need to spend this money on the spouse I'm going
to keep my expenses the way it is this my spouse is just asking me way too many
expenses my wife wants too many things then what happens is if you're not regularly spending money on the marriage
you're not investing in the marriage then some expense comes in
related to the marriage or the spouse that you now have to give okay and then remember 12th house
is coming to the sth house which means that naturally a person will time to time even whether
it's marriage or relationship will get opportunities to meet people from far off places far away
places and you will see with 12th Lord in the sth house or let's say 12th
Lord sitting with Venus okay 12th Lord with the seventh Lord the
person never usually gets the right sleep until their spouse is with
them like if they're in the room let's say post marriage spouse is outside watching TV
and they're and they're this person is in the bedroom they can't sleep until the spouse gets near them then suddenly
they fall asleep they need that presence of their partner to
sleep you will see sometimes when if a person is dating right even if it's the first 2 3 months
of dating they will always wait for their boyfriend and girlfriend to call them in
bed and talk to them so they can fall asleep because of course 12th house is
your bed sleep pleasure along with the fourth house but when it's in the
seventh that means the 12th house energy is now being controlled by the 7th
house okay now of course 7th house can also represents promotion that doesn't
mean that you need now promotion to sleep otherwise you're not going to sleep or you need higher distinction and
title but on those you will notice this whenever something great happens in your
career okay um promotion happens
bonuses this person suddenly get a successful big
contract in their business the Sleep naturally just
improves it's like a burst in the Improvement of sleep even if it goes
back why because the 7th house is it's kind of like not boiling just
sprouting but and and also you will see
um whenever you
travel offshore far away places foreign lands you're single when you come
back it activates your relationship it even activates your promotions if your seventh Lord isn't a
good place because we're only talking about 12th Lord is in the seventh house we don't know where the seventh Lord is
place you know
um especially with 12th Lord in the
7th and that too you know like um you will see like people who go on a
cruise and come back suddenly something becomes active or people might even meet others in
terms of their love interest while they're traveling but it's usually when they go
and come back some Chance some romance some
connection becomes active of the seventh house like for example if
there's dryness and bleakness within the marriage okay and 12th Lord is going to
the sth house that means take that opportunity of the 12th house go on some
long far away getaway vacation and that will tend to improve
by because you're aligning yourself with the 12th house that's it 12th Lord is in the 7th house so time
to time you're going to have to travel if you want that you know uh sanity of marriage and
sanctuary of peaceful marriage to become active in your life and especially if you have a
business you need to spend money in your business you know like that term invest in yourself invest in your business in
order to grow yes you're going to have to do that for
example you're an influencer you can't just say okay I can
just get all the views and likes just from this simple camera from my iPad why
do I need to spend money on there with this type of a placement get a better
iPad when the new iPad comes out get that better camera when that comes
out and again I tell people don't trust me test me when you are doing well upgrade your
Tech related to your business only and you will see and see what's going on is
there any Improvement like note it down like this month I bought this let's see what
happens ooh my subscriber count went up my My Views went
up okay next month I also need this light so I'm going to get this light for
my business I need a professional aperture light so you get
that and okay let's see oh it did improve my money did improve this and
when you see that okay well two months of testing things happen Okay well keep investing in your
business instead of like you editing something hire somebody to add something
new to it so you invested now for someone else it may not be that
great to invest money keep on investing investing without seeing any results but
this is what it's saying that I'm I'm here I am the expense and I'm here in the sth house so take use of me or I'm
going to have to use you now 12 thr in the e8th house
so with 12th in the 8th house obviously shows you're going to be married into a family that always deals with big
expenses deals with big Investments most of the people within
the in-laws the family after marriage lot of people will travel
foreign travels foreign places naturally all can will also bring about people who may gamble now gambling
doesn't really necessarily me somebody who cuz gambling has the stigma of negativity but I'm just saying somebody
who could be very deep into like crypto trading stock trading sometimes it could bring in like
father-in-law is addicted to gambling you know loves going to the casino but they take many
chances and especially you will see when whenever the travel happens within your
marriage with your in-laws it's happen suddenly like
if people are planning 3 months ahead four months ahead to go somewhere your planning
happens just like that within 3 4 days you're going to a foreign country like even myself I wasn't
planning to go to Tokyo Japan you know but a lucrative
opportunity came into play you know
to go and make art in Tokyo take photographs in
Tokyo and literally I decided okay I'm going to go
on Wednesday and no no no no Tuesday when Yeah
Tuesday I booked my ticket Wednesday I was on my way to Tokyo for
78 days so yeah um these are this is how
things happen that you suddenly you know just will will take either opport sudden
opportunities for Investments coming sudden opportunities related to travel comes in sudden opport sudden expenses
in your in-laws or married life will come in like suddenly some um opportunity for
Investments is happening and this you will you can also see this you know if
12th Lord goes into the sign of Scorpio it's a very similar energy
you know but it will bring about those things like especially post marriage Sudden Change will
happen in your in-laws within one year within one year or so maximum one and A2
year boom some big change occurs in their
life okay so now and then actually the other thing I
also forgot to mention is that 12th Lord being in the house you know especially for
people who want change in their life transformation in their life right
because that's why you actually even watch videos on astrology why are you following me or
many others and why are you watching videos of astrology because you want that change
you're waiting you're looking you're looking for that nectar of
transformation that okay this alignment this remedy this Transit is going to
bring about the change in my life so here what happens
is you will see when you travel overseas change definitely takes
place in your life number one number two when you do some when you
go into a cult even just studying astrology on your own without ever making money from
it brings about sudden Chang in your life you get initiated into some kind of
a tantric practice tantric meditation practice tantri mantri
practice changes will come in your life and especially whenever you donate
money okay and that's the thing
um you got to always time to time donate if you don't want to deal with those sudden expenses of the marriage okay
always donate money time to time to whatever institution you want and at
whatever Asam you're looking for to donate but always make secret donations
don't ever put it on online oh I just donated $5,000 to this
organization I would really want all my friends and family to contribute something here because blah blah blah
don't do that cuz people will see through it like okay this person just wanted to say they donated $5,000 so
they can show themselves off as a rich person yeah whatever no whatever you make a million doll donation you should
become like Frank SRA have you you guys should watch that documentary Palm
Springs Frank Frank Sinatra I was just watching that actually funny for the second time 3 4 days ago I love that
documentary where it showed that Frank Sinatra will read the newspaper and see whoever struggling in Palm Springs some
woman is about to lose her home and her motor home or her pet and this and that he would send an anonymous check to take
care of that where celebrities are always in upfront making big donations and having
you know newspaper and Paparazzi print about Their donation so they can look good he never did that it's only his
after his death they found out that it was him who did these things and this is how you want to
be because the the house of donation goes into the Eighth House of
secrecy so keep your donation a secret
okay um there are certain places that you can
announce your donations okay especially if
Venus goes into the third house or Venus
goes into even the 12th house okay you can do that time to but keep the secret as much as you
can okay so now we're going to talk about 12th Lord in the 9th house so with a 12th the Lord in the 9th
house maximum of your expenditures and expenses in life will take
place in the area of dealing with pilgrimages travel higher education
father gurus mentors like this is the person as a
student will probably bring gifts for their mentors and teachers this is a person who will give
money donation to The Guru that's the because see 12th house
is investment right wherever 12th house is 12 not 12th hous we know where 12th
hous is okay I've only had one beard today wherever 12th Lord is that's where
you're trying to make your investment you're trying to make your investment
related to the ninth house so you will see a person will invest their Prana and their time
towards higher education towards perhaps even
karmically one has to spend money on the father you know fathers get old they get
sick father may not have the enough money to cover for the medical expenses and you have to you take care of
it okay one will especially
um give their time you know to the 9th house more than
like donation part is the time that you give because how does wisdom come with
the ninth house wisdom and knowledge comes long duration of time being spent
in the gurukul with the guru right so these people you will see most of the time they will invest their time in the
9th house like if a such a person is in a particular Dasha travel bug becomes active the
entire time goes in spending towards traveling experiencing different
culture but time can also be wasted on Wars wars and
fights okay and this is very true especially
for a uh Aries and uh Capricorn
ascendant okay one will like like one's reputation
is kind of known oh this person just always waste time in fighting with
people and then especially because 12th house becomes a area of the BET pleasure
right where is that highest of Moka comes from again it is coming through
the ninth house so whenever you feel down you have to travel you have to read
some High book on higher knowledge and you will see naturally you feel
rejuvenated you feel inspired you feel hopeful about
things and also this is the position that will also show that a father would
attain mother's property okay father will attain mother's
property but it's funny I made a Facebook post just two three days ago that if you're an Aries
ascendant most likely you didn't get father's assets or property let me know if that is true
here okay but see the the planet the the sign
of foreign lands far away places goes into the 9th house and so because n9th house is the
Dharma is the Dharma house so naturally a person even if they
don't want to go to far away place it's kind of like part of their Duty and
commitment to go far away to whether it's to do their work
attain their education for their children's benefit for their own parents'
benefit those things will take place and remember if you originally look at the
kalak 12th Lord which is Pisces in the 9,000 Sagittarius that means
Guru is from it the asham is going towards the pilgrimage there's a
movement of the guru cuz the guru's home is the 12th house where Guru works is
the 9th house and this is why you see a lot of researchers people who love doing
research people who want to be in a place of educational environment and
research studies and teach would have these type of placements that doesn't
mean that you get it because if Saturn is not approving of it yeah you can keep
trying but that's where that pleasure that Moka pleasure will come into
play now we'll look at 12th Lord in the 10th house so with 10th Lord or 12th
Lord being in the 10 th shows a foreign opportunities will always come to this person and if this person does not
invest in their own career then
expenses losses related to Career are
seen because if you don't do what the
Lord is wanting to do then it's going to force itself
within your life so if let's say a person is not
investing in their career meaning if you have to learn new lesson you learn new lesson and you pay those out of your own
pocket while you're working you know if you KN that you need
this new graphics card or computer to deal with your enormous you know
processing with whatever you're doing and you're like uh maybe I can just get by and you're like I'm not gonna I don't
need to I don't want to invest this right now it's okay if you don't have the money but then what happens is if time
to time Investments are not made in your profession in your career you have a
business in your company then some big expense comes in which now you have to give without
even enjoying the fruits of that expense because let's say for example you need a
new computer and you know you need this computer because you're doing all these graphics
and you're doing you know whatever for some
company so okay you invest in that computer and you get to enjoy it wow I got a computer you know but if you don't
if you're like no I don't need to invest in my career I'm going to maybe do it 2 three years from now then some expense
comes in that doesn't even have anything to do with what you buy and now you got to waste money somewhere else so it says
12 house says invest in your particular work and especially the money you make
you donate because 10 house is your work 12 house is also donations so you must
donate some of that money okay and especially because it's the 10,000
donate to people who are trying to advance their own career to organizations that may help extremely
poor people find some kind of a funding and investment for for their own small little food
stall cuz they're not making enough money and and especially because this
the 12th Lord in the 10th always try to get a work an
opportunity that somehow deals with Far Away places forign lands but actually
you don't have to do it if your 10th Lord was in the 12th house you would desire to do that here the opportunities
will a automatically come to you because it's the Lord coming to you you don't have to do
anything okay and also you will see um 12th or the 10th will also show many
of times your bosses will move bosses get some farway of opportunities foreign
opportunities and so one gets detached from that one will also spend much and
especially with 12th Lord in the 10th this whole expense thing that I'm
talking about you might have to give a lot of money to the government instead of getting taxes back
you might owe taxes so this is why Always and I'm not
saying you have to do it every day okay within a
year maybe twice Thrice spend money somewhere for your
work like if you need something don't be like okay no no no I don't really need it cuz I need to save that money
in your particular case you should invest in your work because it'll improve the work because remember what
investment is is meant investment is something that you're giving $1 so
you're hoping to make $10 in return so when you do invest in your work what do you think is going to happen your work
gives you more back with interest
okay now we're also going to look at finally 12th Lord in the 11th house
so finally we have um 12th Lord in the 11th house right so the 11th house is
naturally your house of Desire House of gains Elder siblings paternal
uncles okay and 12th house is your donations
expenses um Investments okay so NY first of all if
if you have an elder sibling it shows Elder sibling will have to at one point
go to a foreign Place foreign lands and if they don't you know what happens because of your chart we can see
tremendous expenses and burden come upon your Elder sibling and because it's your 12th house
you yourself will have to take on at one point a burden of some expense related
to the Elder sibling or uh paternal uncles this is also a great place cuz
look what's happening investment house Lord goes into the
11th which says when you invest what happens because it's not 11th Lord the
12th it's the 12th Lord going to the 11th you will see you will get investment
opportunities especially far away investment opportunities and if the
chart you know and if the planets are well placed they'll fulfill your desires
those Investments fulfill your desires whenever you and you will see
whenever you are um or whenever you don't have friends Social Circles in
your life your social life is just blank you sit home you're making noodles and
you eat and watch Netflix and go to sleep the moment you start putting money
let's say longterm in some brokage account for a 1K
Ira you start donating money constantly
regularly you will see naturally you start making friends you start increasing your Social Circles also
whenever you go to some foreign Place foreign travels okay naturally help you make
more connections and friends in your life okay they will help you to it
because 11 house is connectivity it's support So support is not being lost
11th unless you have your 11th Lord in the 12th house but of course then the parivartan yoga saves it but it's not
11th Lord in the 12th house it's 12th Lord is in the 11th but the problem is many people do
not take advantage of this because 12th houses like I said expenses donations
Investments if these three things are not being done in the 11th house then un
necessary expense comes into play meaning time to time pay for drinks and food for your Social Circles or
friends time to time maybe bring them gifts time to time take care of the
Elder sibling take your Elder sibling out for dinner because what's happening is now it's like doing a remedy so
instead of having a big huge expense come in related to your 11th house you
already tell the 11th house look I'm taking care of the 11th house so 11th house is like okay I'm going to stay
back I don't this person is already doing what I'm doing what I'm saying now
it's easier said than done you see an astrologer is not
Brahma I can't make you do something I can advise you but if the Destiny says this person is to deal with this expense
you won't take this particular video seriously you'll just watch as an entertainment and go on your day and 3 4
5 6 years from now some situation happens cuz it keeps asking you for that expense and donation
and taking care of that 11,000 boom now you suddenly you have to become part of
taking care of some big medical expense related to some 11,000 related person
maybe your old paternal Uncle okay while if you kept up with it
you probably wouldn't have to deal with it and that's the thing some things are just destined so astrologers can really
not do much what is destined to happen is destined to happen Okay so this was our 12th Lord
through houses next week we'll do some new series bye-b

